# ðŸ–§ IPLD Weekly Sync ðŸ™ŒðŸ½ 2020-09-28

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @mvdan 
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey 
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - @jonnycrunch
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fB02L8V31bI


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - @ribasushi: Selectors exposure in lotus API / danger of non-path/incomplete selectors

## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust Multihash:
   - major tiny-multihash change got merged: https://github.com/ipfs-rust/tiny-multihash/pull/34
   - Next:
     - Better errors. Prevent users from defining too small digests (and hence there code panic)
     - BLAKE3 support WIP (not by me, I'm just reviewing): https://github.com/ipfs-rust/tiny-multihash/pull/36
 - Rust CID:
   - Changes to use tiny-multihash based code are now even smaller (after that PR got merged)
 - Next:
   - Look into WASM stuff

@mvdan 
 - continued with go-ipld-adl-hamt
     - code generation working with the latest hashmap.md schema
     - discussed some minor ways to simplify/improve the shema with Rod and Eric
 - got nerdsniped with a filecoin/lotus json decode panic
     - turns out to be a spec bug of some sort?
     - https://github.com/golang/go/issues/41685
 - helped with test reviews on go-merkledag
 - seems like everyone is ok with a go-multicodec with generated consts. will do that soon-ish.

@warpfork
- reviewing @rvagg's dag-pb work
- upgrading go-ipld-prime codecs with resource budgets, for DoS resistance.
	- https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/85
- working with @willscott on describing more filecoin content using IPLD and IPLD Schemas, via the statediff project
	- generating lots of experience points with this, and will continue to do so.
	- some interesting reflections on codecs and how developers might want to interact with them or make their own: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/86
	- many things are easy to describe with schemas.  A few are not.
	- future: hoping to use this as a test integration ground for ADLs
	- expect a bigger report about this in the future.
- a new document about map order is out: https://gist.github.com/warpfork/9315eac9848fa2c2ab36174272a80d9b
	- we need to develop a process for landing these things more reliably.  I'm publishing as gists because they don't move and they don't get lost and they don't get stuck in review limbo or insufficient-ratification limbo.
- supporting @mvdan on the hamt ADL work
- writeup on road to self-hosting codegen: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/84

@mikeal
 - landed @gozala's js-multiformats refactor
 - wrote simple-dag (needs tests)
 - new docs site is live! docs.ipld.io and ipld.io re-directs to it.

@rvagg
 - still haven't escaped DAG-PB!
 - Got deeper into the PB decoding and found 3 major ways the input can vary and the current encoders will accept it:
     - Out of order fields
     - Repeated fields
     - Extraneous data that's valid PB but not valid for the schema
 - Implemented a super-strict decoder for JS https://github.com/ipld/js-dag-pb, encoder is also super-strict, there's no way to have a Data Model form that won't round-trip exactly (yay)
     - js-dag-pb also uses @Gozala's new js-multiformats interface
 - Revisited DAG-PB spec PR https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/297
     - More details on the specific constraints on the IPLD Schema
     - Changed `Links` to be _not_ `optional`. It must always be there in the Data Model even if empty. Accepted @warpfork's argument on cardinality here - it's more pleasant if you have guarantees that `Links` is _always_ present and an array. This has been implemented in JS.
     - Notes on the PB schema with details about strictness on decoding - these are _should_ rather than _must_ because they require tinkering with the PB decoder which isn't very normal with PB.
 - Made a Go version https://github.com/rvagg/go-dagpb - it's mostly complete and has the custom decoder & encoder matching JS. Still need tests & docs.
     - This is only low-level, not something that can be plugged directly into ipld-prime, it'll need to be plugged into ipld-prime-proto (could be a drop-in replacement) or a new ipld-prime-proto.
 - Gave a talk at SpeakeasyJS about Content Addressed Distributed Data Structures, starts from really basic stuff about CA & builds to how we might construct and think about block-spanning data structures https://youtu.be/r5F6dekUmdE, will extract and publish the video by itself.

@chafey
 - js-graphsync spike
     - Slow progress while getting libp2p basics working, but
         - requester connecting to go-ipfs graphsync!
         - responder connecting to go-ipfs graphsync-get test app!
         - requester and responder connecting to eachother!
     - had problem with go-libp2p changing default encryption provider from SECIO to NOISE
     - had problem with undocumented graphysnc spec - messages are framed with varint size (issue now filed, will update specs once i have enough changes batched up)
     - Currently working through some libp2p/it-pipe/stream issue
     - Will be using rod's new dag-pb library
 - hoping to get spike completed early this week and then will refactor the spike code into the library -> js-ipfs bridge -> complete functionality
 - evangelizing IPLD/content addressable stuff to medical imaging/healthcare industry!


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

### Codecs and hash consistency

- @mikeal discussed codecs and the challenges we have with hash consistency - found in CBOR, JSON, even PB. Some interaction with libp2p and their protocol messages that _may_ want to be content addressed in the future. Consistency is still difficult.
- @jonnycrunch talked about CDDL and suggested there's some help there in consistency

### Selectors exposure in lotus API / danger of non-path/incomplete selectors

- @ribasushi
 - Filecoin will allow arbitrary selectors (API wise), but things won't work as expected
