# ðŸ–§ IPLD Weekly Sync ðŸ™ŒðŸ½ 2020-04-27

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey
  - @willscott
  - kevinwray
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FsDMCOeOLh4

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Filecoin multicodec discussions: https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/172
 - JS IPLD maintanance stuff (broke the JS IPFS world and fixed it again)
 - Rust IPLD Block API => DagJSON spec work: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/168

@warpfork

- codegen now does lists, bytes, floats, bools, etc (all the scalars).
- still future work: representation recursions working correctly for maps and lists.
	- stepping through a map or list currently "forgets" that you're stepping over representation nodes and gives you the type-level node.
	- fixing this naively is easy -- but taking this a bit slowly because it would be nice to find a way to do this with minimal duplicate gsloc volume.  we'll see.
- started doing some work DRY'ing up the codegen templates.  some progress; still lots to go (had been intentionally deferring this, so lots built up).
- did a bunch of work on migrating go-graphsync to use the NodeAssembler era of interfaces
	- seemingly mostly done, but some test failures I haven't sussed yet.

@mikeal
- js-multiformats (half way done)
  - https://github.com/mikeal/js-multiformats
  - big change, totally different interface
  - lots of breaking changes to CID
- dagdb - remotes are working
- we should have a discussion about where the final project boundaries are.

@rvagg 
 - multicodec discussions and proposals, 2 steps forward 1 step back, see @vmx' link above
 - lots of btc
     - have dumped entire blockchain into individual blocks as binary and JSON (~300Mb -> 2Tb)
     - have a complete block printer in JS working, can replicate exact JSON the btc client prints (minus a few pieces that are not derivable from the block)
     - can re-generate binary data from block details and build the two merkle trees and other pieces
     - have verified against the entire chain, all good
     - moved on to js-ipld-bitcoin to connect it to this new work and make it complete
     - next steps:
         - generate IPLD blocks for each component (header, tx merkle, tx's, witness tx merkle, witness tx's)
         - be able to do the reverse, make btc block from complete set of IPLD blocks
         - make a CAR per block, validating the round-trip back to the binary
         - roll up multiple CAR files into one, forming into ~< 1G CAR files


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

