# ðŸ–§ IPLD Weekly Sync ðŸ™ŒðŸ½ 2020-12-14

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - @mvdan
  - @jonnycrunch
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6zjGqTtNVXo

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - (@vmx) js-multiformats: current state, our plans in regards to js-ipfs integration
  - (@mvdan) should Length, Iterator indices, LookupByIndex, PathSegmentFromInt, etc also use int64?
  - (@mvdan) are we OK with the int64 change requiring some manual changes for type conversions?
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Store-the-hash benchmarking:
   - Called from Go (Lotus blockstore layer): approx. 70m CIDs, slightly faster than Badger on pure insertion and pure reads
 - js-cid release craze of Friday, due to adding Typescript typing with related code changes

@mvdan 
- slow week :(
- started int->int64 refactor in ipld-prime for v0.7
    - AsInt/AssignInt already changed, for the most part
    - have an agenda item for this, actually
- continuing to help with go-quic reviews
- noticed that Marten's qtls-go1-15 is broken with Go 1.16
    - raised that with him. he was waiting for a 1.16beta1 to test, but that release is two weeks late... pinged some Googlers.
    - do we test our libs with betas/RCs before a new Go release is out? we really should

@warpfork
- go-ipld-prime tagged and released v0.6.0!  https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/releases/tag/v0.6.0
	- upgrade at your leisure!  Should be an easy step.  Some minor fixes; some features; no breaking changes.
- bunch of stuff in go-ipld-prime that uses codegen now uses standardized "go:generate" tags so it's operationally reasonable.
- we merged the prototype schema package which uses codegen'd types to handle the schema data!  https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/107
- picking up a bunch more PL-internal comms work (of which there is... I'll be frank, a lot).
- @rvagg and I talking with some folks from Vulcanize about ethereum/IPLD bridges; they're doing a bunch of interesting work.
- been continuing to slow-cook on a Prospectus for IPLD 2021 goals: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UyC6VWUQzbTUfj3lLeKcITP_7vWBcgfhmYqww7UVt_s/edit#heading=h.dpxx78i40yff
	- a bit more discussion of some challenges we've become cognizant of this year
	- a bit more explanation about why so much talk about tools goals is popping up

@riba
- virtually no IPLD stuff, still stuck with small-miner-woes/ddrop
- have a relatively working RDBMS-backed lotus, but need to squeeze another ~5x perf out of it to be really viable, still aiming before xmas

@rvagg
  - AMT docs https://github.com/filecoin-project/go-amt-ipld/pull/23
  - Go DAG-PB https://github.com/ipld/go-codec-dagpb
  - Help with Merkle DAG content for Protoschool
  - JS CBOR stuff, inching forward with promising results so far

@willscott 
  - Thinking about a schema + car for use in examples
      - Astronomical objects?
      - Brands of Cheese?
  - Looking for pointers to ipfs / ingestion of other chains


## Notes

### Time off
@vmx off 2020-12-19/2020-01-11


### Archicing blockchains in IPLD

- willscott has been in conversation with some other blockchain developers who are emitting archive snapshots of their data set (order of 100GB every 6 hours) and they want it accessible via IPFS.
	- What utility can we offer them?  Should they look at doing this work with IPLD or KISS with big hulking files?  Do we have docs with a decision tree for these scenarios?
		- Depends on if they need a custom codec or not.  If they need a custom codec, that's... a whole migration trouble in its own right in the future, so maybe KISS is actually preferable separation of concerns.
	- Do we want to suggest they look at how we've integrated bitcoin (custom codec), or suggest a different direction?

### js-multiformats: current state, our plans in regards to js-ipfs integration

- discussed path to js-ipfs integreation of js-multiformats and friends
- code is in a good state, most of the important pieces should be in place, it's being used and is solid
- anything missing? let's discuss

### go-ipld-prime int vs int64 usage
- @mvdan:
    - should Length, Iterator indices, LookupByIndex, PathSegmentFromInt, etc also use int64?
    - are we OK with the int64 change requiring some manual changes for type conversions?

- discussion about Go's approach to int
- no disagreement that we should just be explicit about sizing even for indexing

### DID stuff

 - https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#dagcbor
 - Pushback against DAG-CBOR:
   - How to represent Tag 42 in JSON
   - General complaints about DAG-CBOR and DAG-JSON relationship being underspecified, "non-normative"
 - IPLD team would love to integrate that feedback, the more specific the better
