# üñß IPLD Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2020-03-09

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @ribasushi
  - @chafey
  - @mikeal
  - @creationix
  - @willscott
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yb9JQSxsSmc


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust libp2p is using upstream rust multihash: https://github.com/libp2p/rust-libp2p/pull/1472
 - Lot's of improvements to rust-cid and released
   - Rust IPLD was able to switch completly to upstream versions of rust-cid, rust-multibase and rust-multihash: https://github.com/ipfs-rust/rust-ipld/pull/22 
 - Ideas for supporting custom codec tables for rust-multihash and rust-cid in a better way

@creationix
 - Started on JS implementation of selector syntax compiler. It should be done this week.
 - More work on spec PR.

@warpfork
- trying to get my head into docs for a while.
	- improve clarity by separating "blocks" and "codecs" layers?  https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/244
	- working on a writeup of all the things about strings.
		- started trying to just write The Answer, but on second thought it's probably going to be an Exploration Report first.
		- not committed yet; should have a draft out sometime in the week.
    - still have a couple other PRs in this group to finish processing the feedback on and land.
    - fun discussions going on about refreshing a mission&vision statement: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/issues/86 thanks to @chafey
- doing some initial splunks into what interfaces in ipfs are deserving of refactors coming up in the future, and how to plan that.

@mikeal
 - mostly big data stuff (still)
     - resolving a lot of issues at scale is painful, have to wait hours to reproduce and see if fixes work :(
 - DagDB replicates!
     - should probably do a talk or something on this for the team later this week

@rvagg
 - Catch-up post Go course: reviewing PRs and participating in issue conversations. Highlights:
     - Tim's selectors spec changes
     - go-car https://github.com/ipld/go-car/pull/18 from Hannah introduces selectors from ipld-prime, good step toward CARv2
     - ipld-prime - trying to be helpful reviewing and understanding the monster Assembler/Style refactor https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/49
         - le heart!

@ribasushi
 - Adding car import & export to go-ipfs, pretty sure that PR will be ready tomorrow


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

 - Q (@ribasushi): In CAR files, why is the header at the beginning, why isn't it a footer at the tail
   - Current version of the CAR spec is locked. But in the future, the header will contain more information. @rvagg has already made a start on CARv2: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/248
