# üñß IPLD Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2020-09-14

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @mvdan 
  - @aschmahmann
  - @willscott
  - @jonnycrunch
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey
  - Raha Peyravi
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EHvfGjwotbQ


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - More Rust Multihash work:
   - New exampele on how to use custom code tables: https://github.com/ipfs-rust/tiny-multihash/blob/8c227115eaacdfbcdd0d25eca32867bd9741b4c4/examples/custom_table.rs
   - Only missing feature before upstreaming tiny-multihash is [BLAKE3 support](https://github.com/ipfs-rust/tiny-multihash/issues/22)

@mvdan 
 - Finished getting up to speed on all the docs and most of the specs
     - Sent a PR with an exploration report on my experience: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/294
 - Getting IPLD Go modules to use import paths under ipld.io instead of github.com/ipld; proposal draft at https://hackmd.io/hrixrYI9SxqPNVTBVbxvhg
 - Started writing go-ipld-adl-hamt with pointers from Eric
     - Not much to report yet, as this is my first go at writing anything non-trivial with IPLD.

@rvagg
 - Block storage API - rewriting CAR library mostly done

@warpfork
 - docs docs docs docs specs specs docs
 	- many diffs in the docs repo.  created a skeleton for a bunch of content we're missing and added a TOC for that.
 	- pulling together documents that have evolved in gists, etc, into one place for further iteration
 - conversations with Peergos -- interest in making some of their IPLD library code more reusable for other projects :D
 - built a "demo" ADL for "rot13" to explore the interface possibility space
 - propagating some library updates through downstreams:
 	- https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime-proto/pull/4
 	- https://github.com/ipfs/go-graphsync/pull/92
 - oh, yeah, i wrote another unixfsv2 draft lol
 - still in progress (on the 14th back burner) is a doc on union representations and what should be preferred why etc

@mikeal
 - fixed some bugs in Block
 - updated @ipld/fbl to latest spec and deps
 - implemented Eric's new unixfsv2 draft
 - started writing a podcast client on dagdb & GitHub Actions
     - surfaced numerous feature improvements to dagdb
 - reflecting on "project vs protocol"

@yourname
 - _add what you've been working on_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

 - @jonnycrunch: Discussions about COSE/JOSE
 - @aschmahmann: Identifying the same things with different hashes. Where to put the identifier for it?
