# ðŸ–§ IPLD Weekly Sync ðŸ™ŒðŸ½ 2020-07-13

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @ribasushi
  - @chafey
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @willscott
  - @mikeal

- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TuzWL90HSAM

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Talk about size limits for the identity Multihash: https://github.com/multiformats/multihash/issues/130
      - > We have a mechanism for talking about a choice between embedding data and links now! In the IPLD Data Model, you can do this freely; it's so innately up-to-you that it's barely possible to talk about a world in which it's... not.
      - @warpfork we definitely need to talk about this tonight: there is a class of "Flexible Byte Layout"... layouts, where not using inline CIDs is extraordinarely expensive


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Catching up after vacations
 - Discussing a size limit for identity hashes: https://github.com/multiformats/multihash/issues/130
 - Next: Rust Multiformats refactoring

@ribasushi
 - Virtually no IPLD updates ( busy doing initial QA of advanced Fil workflows )
     - Kept Eric angry on slack
		- lol

@warpfork

- Go codegen now supports unions!
	- So far it's only the keyed union representation, but that's enough to prove out the core concepts.
	- This is a big milestone because unions were the last recursive type kind we hadn't implemented -- now they're implemented, and, no abstractions shattered.  So this is a huge confidence booster: one of the last major places where "unknown unknowns" were fearable is now pretty much cleared out.
	- https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/60
	- Implements support for user's choice of two internal memory layouts: "embedAll" or "interface", which have different trades in performance: resident memory size vs allocation costs, mostly.

- Go codegen can now generate code which conforms to the schema-schema.  It's self-hosting.
	- :tada: :tada: :tada: :tada: :tada:
	- Union support was one of the last missing pieces for this, so, I sprinted ahead and made a prototype happen.  Fun!
	- Okay, there's a number of small ways this stretches the truth:
		- I've switched all the unions to keyed.  In most cases, I want to update the schema-schema to match.  In some cases, they should actually be kinded.  Both are easy to fix.
		- I punted on the use of implicits in struct values (they aren't supported in codegen yet).
		- I made use of several hacks around inline defns.  These are all there because of foibels of the placeholder schema info holder types, and will actually be resolved by closing the self-hosting loop.
		- ... but broadly speaking, it works.  This is pretty cool!
	- I haven't moved the generated code to supplant the placeholder types yet.
		- Could; would rather move a bit more deliberately though.
		- Can use this as a space to experiment with DX and polish things a bit, before we pull the trigger.
		- Also: substantial high-level questions that are unique to this particular situation:
			- Do we want a separate type info package and "AST" package, with different interfaces?  Maybe?
			- How do the interfaces for describing types interact with any desires we might have for codegen outputs to statically(?) declare their own type metainfo?
			- Going to let these questions simmer on the back burner for a while.
	- The output size in (G)SLOC is... large.
		- 1.6Mb, as a ballpark.  Whew.
		- I have made *no* effort to minimize this.  There's probably plenty of room for improvement.
		- The schema-schema is also pretty large, and the generated code is providing a lot of features... but I still see this as a tad large.
	- Reminder: there are many types in the output:
		- one for type-level semantics (it's immutable)
		- ... and a builder for that
		- and one for representation-level semantics (it's immutable)
		- ... and a builder for that, too.
		- And traversals, Selectors, etc: can run on _either one of them_.

- I'm probably going to put *down* the coding keyboard and just write docs for a stint.  Lots of conversations both within and outside the team lately have made it painfully clear that our docs are not up to snuff.
	- (We've been saying this for a while, but like... limit break.)
	- We have some docs...
	- but discoverability is an issue;
	- terse, high level "how does it all fit together" is _way_ too sparse!
	- fine-grained library-scale documentation wouldn't hurt to improve either, but is the smallest fraction of what we need.


@mikeal
 - OKR's
 - Docs
 - ESM

@chafey
 - updated rust-fil-commp-generate
     - updated dependencies to latest version (no longer using local copy)
     - removed unused code
     - added unit test
     - created workaround for aws lambda build
     - submitted fix to genfut that will resolve aws lambda build issue properly
     - testing of aws lambda build
 - dumbo-drop
     - Completed first run of 18TB import

## Notes

- size limits
	- mikeal advocates for "even less than rfc SHOULD"
		- for identity multihash specifically.  "SHOULD" for other multihashes seems more plausible.
	- vmx thinks "at least SHOULD"
	- riba would like to emphasize we have these length limits for other hashes too, this isn't just the identity hash.
	- discussion about what things are really expected to be present in any reasonably minimally-complete library set: and maybe identity mulithashes aren't actually in that, according with our belief these are kind of an odd corner.
	- discussion about rust would maybe actually be happy if CIDs had a fixed max size, because then you could make a zero-heap-allocs implementation of them.
		- could make roundings such as "yeah each varint has 9 bytes reserved", excessive but Fine.
	- maybe we should put this in a "notes for implementors" section rather than in specs
	- maybe we should just document what limits other implementations are doing and briefly why, and just let people read this and then make their own choices when making new implementations.

- discussion about FBL and small embedded byte sequences in the middle of that
	- riba presents the idea that he might have a bunch of chunks in one FBL already... and wants to produce a new FBL which has a few bytes (like, 2 or 3 of them -- not many) interjected variously in there.
	- we might expand FBL to support this.
		- it was considered and cut earlier, because we couldn't see a way to use this effectively.
		- this use case makes some sense.  let's put this capability back in.
		- easy to do this: adding another branch to the union.
	- another usecase that hits near this: what if you were encoding a video format for example, and wanted to embed the header bytes in the first block of the tree.
	- discussion about streaming operation
		- is there an issue where FBL makes it hard to do a streaming write?  perhaps
