# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-04-20

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - @jonnycrunch
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CgqgtRUDo0


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Anouncement that this meeting has a 1h time slot, but we try to keep it short nonetheless


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Some JS-IPLD maintenance work
 - Thoughts on how binary key-based HAMTs could work well in the IPLD world. Expect something written up this week.

@mikeal
 - big data for filecoin is done for now.
 - updater and lru working in dagdb
 - working on the remotes code for dagdb

@warpfork
- codegen advanced.  substantially.
	- string type generation works
	- int type generation works
	- structs with map representations work
		- including with nullable fields
		- including with optional fields
		- including where the field maybes are implemented with pointers
		- including where the field maybes are implemented as embeds
		- including with support for rename directives
	- structs with stringjoin representations work
		- ...!  working proof of different representation strategies for the same kinds.
		- they even work recursively when composed!
	- maps work!
		- including with nullable values
		- including where the value maybe is implemented with pointers
		- including where the value maybe is implemented as embeds
	- these things work recursively
		- confession: i rewrote how nullable and optional worked about 3 times before finding a way that recurses *performantly*.
	- there's a full test system set up
		- 1. it tests generation
		- 2. it tests that the generated code compiles
		- 3. it runs functional tests against the compiled code
		- all reporting nicely within a regular `go test` command
		- (caveat: doesn't work on windows, requires gcc, don't ask.  otherwise it's really nice!)
	- there's a preliminary example of codegen code running the same benchmarks as the hand-written typeless generic basicnode implementation
		- codegen is faster: allocs are fewer, wallclock time is better
		- can't wait to write more benchmarks
	- since this is so much progress, a quick recap on big todos (there's still plenty, this is a large endeavor):
		- lists aren't in that list of dones!  (but they're less work than maps, so should appear in a jiffy.)
		- unions aren't in the list of dones.  and those may skill bear some surprises and funtimes.
		- various other representations are not in the list of dones.  (but we've already got two excitingly diverse examples; unlikely to be surprise difficulties coming.)
		- support for implicit values in structs aren't yet in the list of dones.
		- a bunch of other scalars aren't in the list of dones.  (but they're... all trivial, plug and chug.)
		- much error handling is not yet nicely polished.
		- type literal generation is all entirely todo.  (errors and some meta stuff wants this, but it doesn't block most other features.)
		- none of this is wired to be invoked from a schema *document*, it's still all driven by code.

- request: if someone would like to turbo around the codegen code just reading the comments (do *not* try to read the whole thing; there is a LOT of it) and look for any major logical incongruities, that might be useful at this point.
	- for example: you'll find some comments about how "maps with complex keys (that is, e.g., structs with stringjoin representations are the map key) must auto-coerce string keys so that PathSegment is usefully applicable" and things like this, and I'd like:
		- A) a double-check that this is sane, and
		- B) assuming it's sane, it would be good if this rumination starts to spend some time in more than one person's brain, because things like this are probably important to know about and think through for other design ramifications.


@rvagg
 - Filecoin multicodecs, starting from https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/161 & https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/issues/168 discussions
     - https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/170 sha2-256-trunc2 - multihash
     - https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/171 poseidon-bls12_381-a2-fc1 & poseidon-bls12_381-a2-fc1-sc - multihash
     - https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/172 fil-piece-unsealed, fil-sector-unsealed, fil-sector-sealed - multicodecs
     - some discussin about details and naming, no major disagreement so far
 - Bitcoin block dissection, how to turn it into a schema


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

- we tend to think of links as doing three things in IPLD:
    - links for content integrity and basic identification
    - links as suggesting physical storage continuity (and nonoverlap)
    - links for fetchery
- the latter two are not necessarily true of other systems
