# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-06-22

- **Lead:** @ribasushi
- **Notetaker:** @ribasushi
- **Attendees:**
  - @ribasushi
  - @warpfork
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey
 
- **Recording:** 

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

 - @ribasushi
   - Further descend into offline storage-deal madness / getting a stable Fil node to run
   - I *think* I found a way forward with streaming-transforms-from-FS without too much overhead
       - Tested an c6g AWS instance: performance comparable to an Ryzen R7/R9 :mind_blown: 

- @warpfork
    - tried to implement an ADL
        - sketched out the simplest thing possible to make a dummy/example ADL: "fanout map", which just encodes each value in a new block and links to them.
        - no major roadblocks... "just conform to the Node interface" seems to be working
        - at least, not the ones you might fear: but the amount of boilerplate needed turns out high.
        - configuration of all the things that go into the ADL is a little interesting: there's lots of pieces (sidling in the linkloader func, etc).
            - looks like the NodePrototype interface is already suitable for gathering these, but some design decisions here will need documenting
    - investigated potential ways to reduce the amount of boilerplate in creating a new Node implementation.
        - most of the boilerplate emerges from all the little methods for conforming to the interface even if they're not valid for a particular kind.
            - e.g., if I'm implementing a HAMT ADL, I know all the methods like "AsBool" will always error... but I still have to *make* those methods.
        - go is not a helpful language for this
            - ... at least, not without giving up on putting useful type info in the errors.
            - in java or most OO languages, this would just be regular "extends".
            - in rust this would be easy to handle with traits.
            - in go?  composition doesn't do this: all methods on the type that you compose with can't see the thing they're composed *into*.  this is fine for many things but not for this.
            - tried several things including panics, using runtime tricks to see call stack info, etc; nothing can pull off what I want.  (Frustrating: relevant info *is* in the assembly; a function *is* generated that has the info I need.  Just have no way to get at that info.)

 - @mikeal
     - js-multiformats migration to ESM
         - compiled version for require()
         - migrated almost all the dependencies as well
     - js-block
         - PR migrated to ESM and js-multiformats ready for review
     - okr
         - need final scores today
         - writing Q3 okrs this week
         - doc week!

 - @yourname
   - _add what you've been working on_

## Notes
- Discussion on doc organization
    - Entry point per language? ( discussing what is solid / in flux / available from an implementation PoV )
    - (@warpfork) Ask how libp2p fared with their way of doing things?
    - (@chafey) A todo-app entry level problem being implemented in each language?
        - (@mikeal) The multiformat/hamt stuff could qualify, maybe schema validation
- @chafey plans to dive into FBL via the rust-ipld entry point
- Discusssion on integer precision
    - Exception on stacks *not* supporting arbitrary precision 
    - In terms of "math in ADL" - group is leaning to "document caveats"
        - overflow can only happen when you "do math"
        - "do math" only happens in the internals of an ADL (e.g. where we have full turing-complete plugin powers anyway), not in DM
        - codecs create numbers and there's a check to be made there, but it's very simple: codecs don't "do math" per se
        - _comparing_ numbers doesn't generally imply "do math"
    - We need docs within the DM to talk about 
