# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-03-02

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @ribasushi
  - @chafey
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qBPABdIFsOk


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Merged/released minor rust-cid fixes to prepare for bigger changes (3 PRs from 3 different people open)
 - I'm official the PL PoC for the Rust IPFS folks
 - Working on getting license changes from MIT to MIT + Apache 2.0 on the multiformat crates
 - Calculating the root of a merkle tree in streaming fashing with little memory usage:
   - https://github.com/filecoin-project/merkle_light/pull/74
   - Still needs work as I also want to parallelize it so that it performs as good (or better) as the current version

@warpfork

- the big core go-ipld-prime interface change is landing: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/commit/4eb8c55cd68966319f99d3887fe0033358c76cfa
	- today's diff is about 6000 lines across 129 files.  (or 7985 insertions, if you want to just count how many new lines in total; 5672 narrowing that down to purely new code coming into the node impls...)
		- point is: no matter how you count it, this is big.  It's about 50% of the entire codebase... anew.
	- traversal is completely refactored to use NodeAssembler
	- selectors are completely refactored to use NodeAssembler
	- codecs are completely refactored to use NodeAssembler
	- shared tests and benchmarks for all these things use NodeAssembler, and there's more of them, and they're more consistent
	- the `ipldfree.Node` is replaced by `basicnode.*`, which uses NodeAssembler, and it's *way faster*.
	- tons of error type consistency was improved throughout this effort
	- traversals are faster
	- selectors are faster
	- marshalling is faster
	- everything is awesome
	- and this unblocks a ton of future work on codegen and raises the performance ceiling for codegen outputs enormously
- what's next?
	- going to give some focus to landing open stuff in the specs repo.
	- take stock of what else would benefit from attention right now...
	- open to suggestions for once!  it's a detante moment before jumping back into anything big.

@rvagg
  - Small amount of CommP Lambda work
  - Most time spent on the PL Go for Distributed Systems course


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

- hey @rvagg, you may want to take a peek at some of the dagjson code I had to rewrite this week.  It has Fun tests and special branches for handling maps with "/".

- @warpfork wishlist: we should get a couple different heads together and do some vocabulary comparison document across all the libraries.
    - is there drift?  (yes.)  how much?  (i dunno!)  should be less?  (well, we need to answer the first two questions first...)

- chafey mentioned questions about "the right way of doing things" -- good idea: we should work on some docs about a "DAGonic way of doing things"

- Discussion regarding map keys - strings vs byte arrays - Eric to take discussion to specs repo to put his current take on it, needs more discussion about the language implications (JS in particular that currently depends on object properties for map keys)
