# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-11-02

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @mikeal
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - @mvdan
  - @jonnycrunch
  - @chafey
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PcnZH0rFXpk


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - rust-multihash 0.12 released!
   - that's the tiny-multihash merge release. It's a full replacement for tiny-multihash
   - `no_std` compatible, no heap allocs for digests
 - Exploration report about extending the Schema Maps listpair representation: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/326
   - it's an alternative to make non-string map keys possible and even more

@mvdan 
 - go-multicodec unarchived
     - PR removing all existing code and adding the new implementation at https://github.com/multiformats/go-multicodec/pull/37
     - code-gens the codes as Go constants
     - uses `type Codec uint64` so that we can attach `String` methods
 - a couple more strings and map key calls
     - I know this is an old and overdone topic, but it was useful for me to catch up :)
 - got introduced by Mikeal to Andrew's ecosystem dashboard
     - might start using it to keep tabs on external issues/PRs we forgot about, pinging the right people as needed
 - more go-ipld-adl-hamt work
     - if Eric's codegen PRs get merged, I will be so happy
     - more "idiomatic Go API" tests, to not overlap with the spec compliance tests (still Q4 priority?)
     - initial link loading support, will finish and post tomorrow
 - gotime recording tomorrow: "What would you remove from Go?"

@rvagg
 - https://github.com/rvagg/car-to-schema
     - Run across a car and describe the common data forms found with js-schema-describer
     - Add a `--library` of known schemas to match against
     - Build up your library until it describes no new schemas
     - Have described all (?) of the common forms in the Filecoin schemas and generated some stats for them
     - The deficiency is in the lack of block context - there are many blocks which are common in form but part of different data structures (e.g. non-leaf HAMT & AMT nodes).
 - https://github.com/ipld/js-car
     - Finishing up what I started, a new BlockReader / BlockWriter / BlockIterator interface, ditches the "Datastore" abstraction
     - Learned how to include TypeScript annotations and checking + generation during build step, which adds a very nice additional linting step and results in fully TS compatible distributables
     - Just have docs to finish up, then it's done - e.g. see https://github.com/ipld/js-car/blob/master/api.ts

@riba
  - Not sure where my week went, but nothing super-IPLD specific :( Most randomly:
    - More helping the sentinel team
    - Finished bulk of first-level ddrop unblock (much basic aws wrangling + mistake-proofing)
    - Multiple attempts at untangling lotus blockstores, current at `git reset --hard` version *5*, maybe it's the charm

@warpfork

- go-ipld-prime codegen progress:
	- more typed iterators, other ease-of-use features: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/106
	- rearrange output to finite number of files: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/105
	- a bigger thing: Schema types rebased to use codegen types for the data: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/107
		- still a draft, mind.
		- but getting very close.  has more tests than the current schema types already.  this will be a major quality improvement when it lands.
			- tests include parsing of schemas from JSON and asserting on both happy path, and also on errors returned from validation.
		- includes all (? yes I think actually all!) of the schema validation rules
			- validations errors come out as a list (it's possible to detect many different errors in one pass).  this will become user facing in tools for parsing schemas.
			- e.g. "an inline union containing structs as members should not have a discriminant key which collides with any struct field serial names"
			- e.g. "a kinded union should validate that the kind discriminant stated in the union actually matches the member type's representation kinds"
			- e.g. checking all referenced types actually exist
			- you get the idea.  there's a lot of small things that need logical level validation like this.  now we have that.
		- also will unlock a ton of new practical features:
			- using the codegen types means we can glue this to any IPLD codec and parse a schema out of that
			- meaning: we can glue the Schema DSL-to-JSON transpilers into this by passing the JSON, and then...
			- **we can get validator tools** that run on the Schema DSL, and those things will be ready to plug into CI, or wherever else one might want them.
		- some other effects will be coming out of this in the coming weeks:
			- a few piece of schema-schema have earned new review in light of what the practical implementation is uncovering here.
				- e.g. "copy" types -- we need to talk about those.
				- byteprefix unions also have some review questions.
			- the DSL-to-JSON transpilers might need some minor update work to keep in sync.
- one last gist on strings, and I'm putting this down for a while: https://gist.github.com/warpfork/8dd88ffb90bdd40eff9945cf7a67fc15
	- the thesis is still oriented around "this data exists; what are we going to do about it"
		- some more input information on this -- ipfs actually does have both clear support for this kind of data, but also bugs around it:
			- ... so that's good evidence of Why we need to sort this out!
			- it is possible to `ipfs add` files with any filename -- where "any filename" means any sequence of bytes, not necessarily UTF-8 or even unicode at all -- and this works.
			- this results in things like: https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmVouX68SXwFu9HoSUxD4uBRCzsCx2u9QAiFcE9Ny8CwDq
			- the dag-pb codec is storing the bytes we give it -- so this works.
				- fun note: dag-pb calls these things a string, but at the same time it's clear that in actuality the support range is actually sequences of 8-bit bytes
					- mind: there's a comment suggesting UTF-8.  but again, it's clear that *in actuality* the support range is... bytes.
			- the web gateways largely do handle this correctly.
				- urls in links include the full precise sequence of escaped bytes (using `%` escapes).
				- all the data in all the files is accessible and can be linked to in the web gateway.
			- other things that use the dag-pb data directly generally handle this correctly.
				- the web gateway is (mostly, see next point) an example of this.
				- another examples is that you can mount the files and get the arbitrary filenames back just fine.
			- the dag-json codec -- which gets used in some of the ipfs APIs -- **is lossy** on this, as currently implemented.  This results in some unfortunate bugs in the web gateways.
				- namely: the rendering of the filename can be incorrect.  (but at the same time, the actual link href is still correctly escaped.)
				- _we should fix this_.  Doing so will require specifying an escaping mechanism for DAG-JSON strings.
	- my recommendation is that data model libraries should design their types in order to deal with this and be able to round-trip that data.
		- there are some specific library recommendations in there, but of course implementers can go about this however they want.
		- libraries don't *have* to do this: some libraries are "limited domain" and *that's fine* -- we just need to document these, so they're not a surprise.
	- my recommendation is that we should make sure to have at least one binary codec which can encode any sequence of bytes in strings without escaping mechanisms.
		- This should be trivial to do in a binary codec;
		- and not having this feature will result in performance problems that make IPLD unusable in some performance-conscious environments (which suffice to say, I would like to avoid).
		- I think we should specify DAG-CBOR to have this property.  It already does in practice.  Making a new codec for this would create much fuss and has no practical upside that I can see.
	- my recommendation is that we use "UTF8-C8" -- initially suggested by @ribasushi -- as an escaping mechanism in some of our codecs where escaping is necessary (namely, DAG-JSON).
		- more links and a short review of this are in an appendix in the gist: https://gist.github.com/warpfork/8dd88ffb90bdd40eff9945cf7a67fc15#appendix-utf8-c8
		- we should review this and make sure it suits our needs as an escaping mechanism, but it appears to be designed with all the same goals and usecases in mind that we are concerned with, so it seems likely there's a good fit here.
		- (riba) it *might* be the case that escaper-escaping was not thought through at the time, I couldn't get a definitive answer from current maintainers (the orginal designers have longmoved on to other things) that is - we need to retest/review/refine ourselves :(
			- can do, will do.  this will be table stakes for anything we choose to do.  let's just bite the bullet and do the work.
	- if anyone has alternative ideas for escaping mechanisms they'd like to push: please send us a note (and ideally a comparison to UTF8-C8 and/or demo implementation).
	- sidenote: DAG-JSON also has string baroqueness issues: most implementations allow both UTF-8 multibyte sequences *or* their escaped "\u" form, even though we can't preserve and round-trip this.
		- @mvdan already opened a bug about this: https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/289/

@chafey
  - js-graphsync
    - researched async generators
    - got stuck trying to integrate async generators into js-graphsync due to complexity in graphsync protocol, abandoned approach
    - working on validation/error handling for requester

@mikeal
  - mostly worked on reviews
  - more progress on migrating dagdb to new multiformats
  - created [sorted-cid-tree](https://github.com/mikeal/sorted-cid-tree)
  - designed [CADB](https://github.com/mikeal/cadb) for block storage

@yourname
 - _add what you've been working on_


## Notes

### Storage system

@ribasuhsi:
 - For caching optimization, the index and the data should be in separate file
 - @mikeal: You loose transactional super pwoers, you cannot just copy file around anymore

Discussion about primary and secondary indexing and append only trees

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->
