# üñß IPLD Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2020-11-09

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @mikeal
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - 
  - @chafey
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrqCXp7SQAI


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - @mvdan: can we agree on go-multicodec vs go-multiformats?


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - New rust-multibase release: now no_std + alloc compatible (thanks @mriise)
 - In progress new rust-multihash version:
   - Triggered by review of rust-multihash upgrade fro libp2p2 https://github.com/libp2p/rust-libp2p/pull/1792
   - It will be easier to use (and more similar to previous versions) for existing users
 - Refined [Invariants for IPLD Codecs issue](https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/328):
   - "In case there is an underlying codec, the data produced by an IPLD Codec MUST be decodable by any spec compliant/reference implementation of the underlying codec."

@rvagg
 - https://github.com/ipld/js-car DONE, full replacement block storage abstractions implemented, documented, typescript typing augmented, fresh, sweet, noice
 - https://github.com/rvagg/jsdoc4readme is better at handling the additional typescript-style jsdoc annotations, and make a slightly nicer output now
 - https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/329 filecoin data forms described, main chain including ADLs, and messages
     - will need additional work to organise it and document it further, this is intended as a first pass that we can iterate on once landed. The ADLs and how we organise them and not hide them entirely will be interesting. I don't really want to hand-wave them because there's a group of consumers of these docs that are not going to care about what an "ADL" is, they just want to know what's in the blocks and how they fit together.

@mvdan
 - https://github.com/multiformats/go-multicodec/pull/37 got some reviews
     - so it should be called go-multiformats, like js-multiformats?
 - more work at https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-adl-hamt/tree/restart
     - initial support for loading links and creating new ones
     - sent a couple of spec questions to Slack
     - sync with Eric earlier today to discuss if/how the new Link APIs in ipld-prime will land
     - will be teaching the ADL to copy nodes next
 - will be trying to make go-ipld-adl-hamt work with the Filecoin schema as well as the new one
     - if that works, then perhaps we can implement batch updates too, potentially useful for Filecoin

@willscott
- https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/104
    - code generation of graphql server is largely functional at this point.
    - need to design appropriate accessors for maps / lists
    - potentially worth hacking together partial ADL node traversal
- Review / help @rvagg on spec of filecoin schema

@riba
- landed all remainig changes for step 1-of-1000 for fil-discover unblock :(

@warpfork
- starting initial probes into codegen output size https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/108
	- probably going to need to tool up on this somehow; right now investigating this is a very hands-on process, and tracking improvements also very manual.
- reviewing @willscott + @rvagg's filecoin schema'ing
- bunch of other sync'ery

@mikeal
 - lots of work for review calibrations
 - working transactions for CADB (new block store)
 - mikola got an initial implementation of his rabin tree up https://github.com/mikolalysenko/rabin-b-tree

@chafey
 - js-graphsync (no progress)

## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

### go-multicodec vs go-multiformats?

Goes into discussion about the multicodec table and whether it should be named like this as it does contain things that are not codecs
 - Agreement on that it's not a good name
 - @mikeal: the thing in CIDs should not be called "Multicodec", but just "Codec"
 - We need to find a better name for the multicodec table (e.g. multicodes, multiid, multi-multi, metamulti)
