# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-02-10

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - Tim Caswell
  - @warpfork
  - @riba
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @stebalien
  - @mikeal
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hUfQGIZe-bc


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - This week: consolidation of Rust Multihash/CID forks and PRs

@mikeal
 - Last week
     - Go commP crashes lambda
     - dropped down to Rust, forked, etc
     - CAR files for Filecoin need to be under 1GB in order to avoid excessive padding.
     - reviews
 - This week
     - re-write slicer
     - re-write allocator
     - run full cycle w/ small dataset
     - migrate old data
     - update ipld/ipld docs

@creationix
  - Last week
      - Got initial design of IPLD Selector Syntax proposed.
      - Started implementation of parser to verify syntax ideas.
  - This week
      - Address feedback and continue on parser.

@warpfork
- about on par for last week's aims, finished reimplementing 'ipldfree' package.
	- finished new implementation of lists and other scalars, connected everything, writing new and more complete tests.
	- is in service to bigger goal of see the performance gains of new interfaces fully realized.
- in the next week: bringing those changes into core.
	- this'll be fun, and I'm going to hope I can port all of {codecs, traversal, selectors} to the new interfaces in one week.
		- (but won't be offended if you place contrary bets)
		- may also generate work for some downstreams (hannah's dagpb repo?), but they should have version pinned by hash and can absorb at leisure.
	- likely will abandon current codegen package temporarily for this migration because it's too much to do in one go.
		- has some lessons learned but also some cruft; rebooting it will be faster.
- also: more test corpus work.
	- test corpuses that need to probe every edge case in serialization and recursion while also addressing what may or may not be typed or untyped data... is nontrivial.
	- I know from past work on refmt that I will hugely regret it if I don't expend effort to keep these organized maintainable.
	- example: one set of test specs should apply to a codegen'd map, an untyped map, and the untyped 'any'.  (good news: this does work today.  just need more of it.)

@rvagg
 - JS CBOR, got close to a basic functioning decoder & encoder minus tags, need to finish floats and will publish. Got distracted by other tasks (below) before that could happen. Interested in the vertical integration efficiency potential, parser <-> schema and things between.
 - CAR format fixes in JS (play nice when you throw blocks at it without being a good `await` citizen)
 - Filecoin CommP generation
     - Discovered that CommP generation uses a _lot_ of disk, not suitable for heavily constrained environments
     - Round up to base2 size, so any part over >1024M rounds up to 2048M
     - Uses tmp file to write padded version
     - Uses tmp disk to cache while making the merkle tree, uses ~2x piece size for cache
     - https://github.com/rvagg/rust-fil-commp-generate/ - extracting pieces of the proofs to replace this process and use memory for padding and merkle caching
     - Maybe not ideal since it's a heavy customisation and simply swaps disk for memory?

## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

