# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-03-30

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey
  - @jonnycrunch
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2c-ebt09oc


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
  - Rust IPLD: working on getting Multiformats work with custom multicodec tables (one for Multihash, one for IPLD codecs):
    - https://github.com/multiformats/rust-cid/pull/50
    - https://github.com/multiformats/rust-multihash/pull/60

@mikeal
 - sick all last week :(
 - strange lambda limit with datastore-car
 - car completeGraph
 - graph store prototype in dagdb

@warpfork
- got all of the big refactor/perf/engine branch landed.  it's on master.
- it even includes the `pkg.Style.Map` syntax @rvagg asked for.
- spun up the work on codegen again.
	- tabula rasa rebooted it; getting up to where the going got tough last time went much, much faster this time.
	- some things are also improved incidentally (like there's more infra in place to support symbol renames later).
	- the amount of code needed for assemblers in the new interfaces is... large; this'll be a while.
- revisiting selector performance on some densely linked topologies together with @riba...
    - traversals where the path is part of the question are essentially an entity expansion; graphs with a dense mesh of links can yield k^n costs from the many different ways to reach the same place, all of which must be oonsidered.
    - just memoizing by the CIDs of links is Not Correct: it's possible for a select to say yes based on one path to get there, and yet no for another path.
    - several solutions possible, some easier, some more complete; still discussing where to go next

@chafey
 - a bit more hacking on the IPLD Schema Editor: https://chafey.github.io/ipld-schema-app/
   - mostly tweaking the prismjs color syntax highlighting rules 
 - found minor issue with hashmap schema
 - available to help!

@rvagg
 - IPFS import/export - review go-ipfs code by @ribasushi and implementing a JS version https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues/2745
     - needs tests, intention to copy fixtures from go-ipfs when that's finished
     - needs confirmation from IPFS team that they want this!
 - Diving into blockchains for Filecoin archival
     - working on BTC and Zcash atm
     - chains synced, planning next steps
     - will probably involve touching js-ipld-* libraries to fill them out a bit more for these codecs (noticing js-ipld-bitcoin is ~1/2 as complete as go-ipld-btc and even that's littered with TODOs)

@jonnycrunch
 - still working on IPID and verifiable credentials 
 - CBOR signed IPLD objects from RWoT paper: https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot10-buenosaires/blob/master/topics-and-advance-readings/ipld-cbor.md


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->
