# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-05-11

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey
  - @willscott
  - @ribasushi
  - kevinwray
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KvFf2sqmLu8

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust Multiformats: new rust-multihash and rust-cid releases, there now is support for custom codec tables
 - Rust IPLD: new `Codec` trait: https://github.com/ipfs-rust/rust-ipld/pull/33
   - The Codec API is cleaner now
   - Storage concerns moved out of the `core` crate
 - DagJSON spec was solidified: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/259
   - Next: just one more PR, which renames the file and updates links: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/262

@rvagg
 - Swallowed by BTC.
  - Can produce full graphs per block now, unverified
  - Haven't quite got a re-assembler finished
  - Blocked on incompatibility with js-datastore-car thanks to new multiformats vs old js-block+CID
  - This is taking way longer than I imagined, part of the problem is needing to be completely sure that it works for all edge cases - this isn't just a fun side project to watch it work on a modern block. It has to work on all, e2e and back again.
 - Working heavily with Mikeal's new ipld/js-multiformats, an improved API over the old but it's going to take some work to make it easy to upgrade & maintain an in-between state with the two (three?) stacks.

@warpfork
- lots of coordination things this week
- some folks are working on selectors in Rust -- exciting!
	- lots of good conversation in the #ipld irc channel
	- they're also working on lang-agnostic test vectors -- very good
- i gathered more docs on performance in go and how to benchmark and improve
	- https://gist.github.com/warpfork/b13d4e0afcfc571cbec8cb4373f61510
	- I'm dreaming of growing this into a "zero to sixty in three-point-five" document that anyone should be pick up and start benchmarking and optimizing in no time, so I'm trying to keep it terse, starting with basics and getting fancy fast, and focusing on practical tricks.  A lot of it is, of course, "lessoned learned" from go-ipld-prime development (and links back to that).
- i made an EDITING.md doc for the specs repo
	- this gathers a list of items we already informally check when considering new ideas
	- and a bunch of other basic boring syntactical stuff.
	- probably not perfect: please review!
- a whee lark: json tables format

@mikeal
- js-multiformats: removed Buffer, ready to ship after review
- basic dagdb indexes work
- off starting wednesday for 2 weeks
