# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-07-20

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @ribasushi
  - @chafey
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @willscott
  - @mikeal
  - @rvagg

- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6hlWqfYUc04


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
    - Doc-week: what's the process envisioned ( @mikeal )
    - @chafey brought up "I am not sure why we tell devs not to use IPLD" during office hours: we should dig into this
        - my take to answer that was "because we have no convergence story"
        - "IPFS Light": https://github.com/ipfs/notes/issues/436

## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Spending time understanding details of https://github.com/dvc94ch/tiny-multihash/ (which is kind of a better version of rust-multihash)
 - Playing with using upstream rust-cid/rust-multihash in Forest (Rust Filecoin implementation)

@rvagg 
 * Took 1.5 weeks mostly-off
 * Spent some time on my new JS CBOR encoder/decoder fiddling with floats and wrestling with JS `Number`s, some interesting outcomes of that should go into our DAG-CBOR docs, particularly about how borc currently handles numbers, including:
   - Any `Number` above `Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER` gets encoded as a float, otherwise whole numbers are assumed to be integers and everything else is a float
   - borc uses bignumber.js to handle large numbers and will return any encoded int above Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER as a bignumber.js object (`BigNumber`), it'll also properly encode integers that are of this type if you give it to it. We probably shouldn't be recommending people rely on this.
   - `BigInt` is too new for borc, and probably for our entire stack for now (Safari support still lacking!). But I'm building it in from the begining.
   - It's not entirely clear that encoding a thing above 2^53 (`MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`) is more correct as a float or an int. Technically all JS `Number`s are floats but we're doing the whole-number thing to flip that coin already. There's no safe way to determine whether something above this value even is a whole number or not! JavaScript doesn't have the tools, hence `BigInt`.
   - Our recommendations probably should be: if there's any chance you're going to use integers in the range of 2^53 then you're going to have some pain. Either use bignumber.js to deal with borc (need to be aware of this for our stack) or `BigInt` when the encoder supports it (we could update borc too if we continue to rely on it).
   - Also, reminder: refmt does all floats as 64-bit, JS (borc and my new thing, although we could switch it), does smallest-possible (16, 32 or 64). This is noted on DAG-CBOR spec but maybe we should resolve it. I was tempted to dive into refmt and propose a change but we should discuss whether maybe we should do it the other way around.
 * Catch-up on some backlog yesterday

@chafey
 - DumboDrop Cleanup
     - Documentation
     - Refactoring
     - Added some commands to verify/test operation
 - IPLD Developer Training documentation ideas

@mikeal
 - docs! new tutorial, muti-lang code examples.
 - js-multiformats/cid.asCID landed
 - merged some improved CJS support for js-multiformats
 - ported codecs to asCID and updated the block interface
 - CAR 1.5! (let's make sure i'm not crazy here) https://github.com/mikeal/car-one-five
 - PR for spec changes to FBL https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/280

@warpforks
 - docs

@ribasushi
 - Yet more Fil
     - Landed https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/161#issuecomment-618160880 ( ON CHAIN!!! )
     - Started on a go-car update, not quite done yet
 - A lot of followup conversation with @aschmahman about identity cid and rest of multicodec table
     - Few ideas how to reorganize table, hoping to have a prototype this week


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

