# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-04-06

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VY8cR9XwXg


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Extending to 1h time slot?


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust Multihash: Change for using generics was merged https://github.com/multiformats/rust-multihash/pull/60. This is a prerequiste for having a proper Block API
 - Working on Block API
 - OFF: Fri+Mon 2020-04-10/13 

@mikeal
 - cranking through data processing, 10GB+ per second
 - http replication in DagDB, covers the graph storage interface we've mentioned many times.

@rvagg 
 - Bitcoin IPLD - block decoding and understanding the format better
     - Aim: extract the entire BTC blockchain into a flat graph that can be stored in CAR files
         - do the same for Zcash, ETC, Litecoin, etc.
     - Raises lots of questions about our CID+Block paradigm and how we stretch the concept
         - what is a "hash"? dbl-sha-2-256 is a multicodec, but what about a merkle tree as a "hash", what about "blocks" that aren't "hashed" in their entirety? How many multicodecs do we need? bitcoin-block and bitcoin-tx currently, but maybe bitcoin-block is enough if we abandon the clean concept of a "hash" and say the hash is "bitcoin"? Also, SegWit makes a mess of the nice model.

@warpfork
- `traversal.SkipMe` feature introduced
    - can be used by the user-provided LinkLoader to skip over subtrees (memoize by CID?  skip subtree I don't have?  etc)
- codegen is a'brew again
	- going really well -- the interface changes from the winter effort are working out excellently.
	- have structs done again -- and representations
	- and tests -- for both
	- and iteration tests -- for both -- including the behaviors that diverge
	- and nullable and optional support -- and tests -- for both
- mulling some questions about how maybes (nullables and optionals) work
	- in implementation this is sorta fun (ended up minimizing number of types generated by having maybe be supported "everywhere" and some parts of the feature supplied by callbacks injected into child assemblers by the assembler that contains them... forgeddaboudit)
	- questioning if we want things like 'optional' to work at the root of document... currently not valid; but would it describe a useful state if it was?


## Notes

 - Extending to 1h time slot?
  - Yes, @vmx takes care of updating calendar invites etc. But we will try to keep it short and not filling the full hour.

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

