# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-11-23

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - @mvdan
  - @chafey
  - @mikeal
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MoTXGA7tOWQ


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
    - https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/338
    - @vmx: Strip control control characters from link names in DAG-PB: https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld-dag-pb/pull/188
        - https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/issues/4292#issuecomment-337243287 (test from way back)
    - @rvagg presenting MiklTrees


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust Multiformats:
   - libp2p is using latest rust-multihash
   - Forest is using latest rust-multihash and rust-cid

@mvdan 
 - go-multicodec is ready
     - See https://godoc.org/github.com/multiformats/go-multicodec
     - Will tag v0.2.0 tomorrow and send PRs starting to use it
     - Speak now if you disagree :)
 - Spoke to Rod about having go-ipld-adl-hamt support Filecoin's HAMT first
     - This will increase its short-term usefulness
     - The schemas only differ internally with the Element type (kinded vs keyed)
     - Perhaps Mikeal's double union will work? added agenda item
     - Talking to Will about being used for statediff (missing Reify and perhaps a few other bits)
 - Gave a talk about Go's build cache at the belfast meetup
     - Giving another on Go 1.16's init time tracing tomorrow at Newcastle
 - Go's json v2 is coming along nicely
     - We have 1h meetings every two weeks, moving slowly but steadily
     - I can share details at the end of the call if that sounds interesting

@rvagg
 - Mikeal's chunking tree presentation - slides to explain
   - questions about DoS possibilities in this structure
 - Poking at Riba's S3 data, built a CAR+leveldb store, bumping into all of the problems associated with _large_ graphs, fun times
 - FIL "Genesis" block clarification

@willscott
  - iplgql running / getting usage
    - Does partial-loading of hamts in a couple of the key locations. working on cleaner interface there.
  - go-ipld-prime [testing](https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/111) and [support for type overrides](https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/116)

@warpfork
 - Recording available of "what's new" in IPLD talk: https://youtu.be/kI9Issf3MNc?t=376 (and the ten minutes or so after that)
 - In go-ipld-prime: merged the codegen output rearrange: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/105 -- now generates a finite number of files
 - Discussion with @willscott about how we might integrate his ADL work (present shortcuts and future longterm, distinctly).
 - Working on planning and scoping for the future.

@ribasushi
 - Nothing glamorous to report
     - Further support for Fil+/Ddrop/SR2
     - "Biggish data" moving around various full chain archives making them available for sentinel/IPLD/RT
     - Provided a basic (unstable) backend for Will's grafilql frontend

@mikeal
 - 2021 planning stuff
 - more work on mikltrees
     - CADB is working, performs well but code is a bit of a mess
     - started a more generic tree implementation

@chafey
 - js-graphsync request validation

@yourname
 - _add what you've been working on_


## Notes

### Strip control control characters from link names in DAG-PB:
    
Not an IPLD concern, it won't work with the new stack => Please deal with control characters in strings on another layer.
