# üñß IPLD Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2020-09-07

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @ribasushi
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @mvdan 

- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=54qvDubWpac


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust Multihash: various improvements to tiny-multihash in order to get feature parity to rust-multihash, so that it can be merged
 - rust-cid: Changes needed to consume a rust-multihash that has tiny-multihash merged are smaller than I expected, so that should be smooth

@mvdan 
 - Finished getting up to speed on docs and most specs. Finished writing an experience report to summarize what parts were confusing.
 - Tons of questions on Slack; thanks for the answers!
 - Probably found a way to make GitHub Actions hang for 6h on Mac?
 - Will start with more coding this week, first helping Eric with TODOs.

@warpfork 
- extending test coverage of codegen: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/75
- several fixes to codegen of unions (same PR as above)
- demo of parsing schema-schema into codegen'd types! https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/76
- braindump writeup on error refactors needed soon https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/74
- some news I'll forward from Ian of Peergos:
	- has implemented some structures where they previously wanted to use identity multihash... without it.
		- was much simpler than he'd previously anticipated.  So I'm going to beg for an experience report writeup about that :)
	- is working on some new filesystem designs for Peergos
		- will be talking with him more later this week about our plans and dreams for unixfsv2 -- probably won't result in direct code share (Peergos has a caps system that's unique) but will be good to be sailing in roughly the same direction.
- PR of possible changes to schema-schema: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/291
	- some contentious.  emphasis that these are _possible_ changes; this is for discussion, not aimed to land directly.
- issue for adding unit kind to schemas https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/292

@rvagg
  - new DAG-PB in JS impl for new multiformats https://github.com/ipld/js-dag-pb/
      - Discussion around data shape transformations required for non-flexible codecs (i.e. everything but DAG-CBOR and DAG-JSON): https://github.com/ipld/js-dag-pb/issues/1
  - Discussion & progress on new block storage interface for JS with @Gozala https://github.com/ipld/js-datastore-car/issues/9, partially implemented for CAR


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

