# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-06-29

- **Lead:** @rvagg
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @ribasushi
  - @chafey
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @warpfork
  - Will Scott
 
- **Recording:**

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

- @warpfork
	- A draft on "Codecs and Completeness": https://gist.github.com/warpfork/28f93bee7184a708223274583109f31c
		- Earliest discussion of this was a few weeks ago; it's now written.
		- Please read and review!  This is some extremely important grounding for all other discussions about codecs, both existing and new.
		- Would like to get this into the specs repo somewhere: would be nice to get some reads on the content first, then draft an outline about where we want this info to live.
		- (Related to capnproto proposal: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/issues/87 )
	- Research notes on codegen usability...
		- Looked at some practical projects and what I'd want from codegen if I used it there.
		- Discovered that a typical user story for a CLI application might a handful of subcommand-specific structs, which refer to lots of common API types.
			- ... this suggests that a developer might want something sort of like "packages" of types, to minimize the scope of what each subcommand references.
		- This idea of hierarchical namespaces is in conflict with the semiotics of structural ("duck") typing, in which the names of types *can't* matter.
		- Current codegen also makes several promises which are dependent on having a single output package... so that's problematic.
		- Backburnering this thought; will need addressing later, but not today.
	- New thoughts about complex validation rules in IPLD Schemas: https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/275
		- tl;dr may be more open to this in the future than previously suspected; found a way to define this that doesn't compromise key goals (separate phases of processing for does-the-schema-match vs extended validity checks).
	- Some discussions with Joel from 3box about COSE/JOSE.
	- go-ipld-prime has a `v0.4` release tagged, and a `v0.5` with some API renames coming up shortly.
		- See https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/59 for the changes.
		- These are all simple renames -- no semantic changes -- and so should be easy to adopt.

 - @ribasushi
     - Chasing `./lotus` concepts/requirements/testcases. It looks like we just started getting everything in place today to actually attempt an offline-deal retrieval in the next few days
     - More progress on`stream-repacker` ( the feeder of `stream-dagger`), but not enough for prime time just yet :/ Have a promising lead that may land its core before the review tomorrow, but TBD.
     - As a "side-distraction" figured out how to get base36/58 encoding almost as fast as base32.

- @chafey
    - ramp up on dumbo-drop project: https://github.com/mikeal/dumbo-drop
        - succesfully ran on my local AWS account
        - added a bunch of inline source documentation
        - wrote scripts to do integration testing
        - currently refactoring/adding test code

- @mikeal
    - okrs
        - research questions https://github.com/ipld/roadmap/pull/27
    - sync's with many people about lotus retreivals
    - kicked off dumbo-drop as a realish project, onboarding chafey
    - Block Interface
        - shipped new js-multiformats based interface, migrated to ESM
    - dagdb
        - indexing is finished, full code coverage

- @rvagg
    - Zcash! Have completed the IPLDification of the Zcash blockchain for Filecoin Discover, 21Gb of CAR files.
        - Still need to clean up docs for the various pieces of code
        - Still need to work on spec doc for the specs repo, will do after the Bitcoin one is finished

 - @yourname
   - _add what you've been working on_

## Notes

### IPFS <> Filecoin

 * Functionality added to Filecoin to pull data from IPFS - this is a concern because it could lead to overwhelming the IPFS DHT
 * Discussion on whether this is going to be the _easiest_ way to import data or not - if it's the easiest then it has implications for IPFS' stability
 * Mikeal: likely that thousands of people will be using this as the default & easy path to getting data in

