# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-07-06

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @ribasushi
  - @chafey
  - @rvagg
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - Will Scott
  - Kevin Wray

- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sUDH2QTbIkM

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Done: vacations
 - Next: Catching up

@ribasushi
 - Started an adventure as a miner: lotus is not an easy daemon to keep upright
     - On my 3rd iteration syncing/sealing ( this time a charm )
     - Small detour with the cryptolab folks to determine how viable graviton2 is exactly
         - Minimal rust exposure

 - Dagger updates:
     - Had a more in-depth demo with @mikeal / @rvagg: still determining how to position things
         - Minimal rust cross-compile test, more to come
     - Worked with rust-unixfs developers to get them up-to-speed what is where

 - Opened https://github.com/filecoin-project/go-fil-commcid/pull/2 implementing @rvagg's work from earlier
     - PR is now on the roadmap for next testnet reset

@chafey
 - refactored dumbo-drop
     - added VS Code Remote Containers configuration
     - added smoke test
     - added 68 unit tests
     - lots of source code comments 

@warpfork
- we've got a v0.5 tag of go-ipld-prime
	- no big news, just scratches out a bunch of API changes and mild renames.  Intended to be easy to upgrade to.
- we've got codegen'd unions
	- this is a pretty huge event: unions, despite sounding simple, turn out to be one of the trickiest beasts to implement.
	- it also gets us almost to the point where we can have the schema-schema self-host!(!!1!)
	- the only supported representation so far is keyed mode, but that will get us pretty far, proves out core of design.
- some conversations about docs with @rvagg ...
- next:
	- the placeholder schema typeinfo structs for codegen need fixing so they can be created with cyclic type references
		- frustrating, because this is the same thing we're *almost* ready to try to replace with self-hosted gen >.< but, the schema-schema has big cycles in it, so!
	- examining how we want to do type info (vs prototype?) in codegen outputs
		- originally, thought I'd try to make them aliases of the same thing: looking closer, less clear that this will work (efficiently).
		- goal itself needs some review: not all other IDLs out in the world that do codegen actually bother to embed this kind of info in their output; maybe we should make it optional too.
		- what kind of interfaces we use here is also entangled with a question of whether we want to have a separate schema-ast package vs schema-info-types-that-are-handwritten-go package.
	- considering revising the schema-schema to use keyed unions consistently (removing where it currently uses inline unions).
		- would make it considerably easier to get to the self-hosting inflection point with these.

@rvagg
 - Zcash IPLDifying for Filecoin Discover complete, docs still incomplete, much code unmerged but all tested and working very well
 - Small increments on Bitcoin spec doc, need to finish it then Zcash* Started exploring Ethereum-land in preparation for the same treatment. Quite intimidating.
 - Hand-off of CommP Lambda work to @chafey
 - Helped @ribbasushi with Filecoin CID adaptation to their official multicodec and multihash codes.
 - Write-up for Filecoin about the limitations of using chain height and other non-local version signifiers for format and data algorithm changes.
 - Minor specs repo PR and issue cleanup.
 - Discussed some near-term doc priorities with @warpfork for specs repo
 - Finishing up a doc based on @warpfork's Codec Completeness gist (https://gist.github.com/warpfork/28f93bee7184a708223274583109f31c) for specs repo
 - Will be on family holiday from this Thursday till the end of next week. Will be working at reduced output and will probably skip next week's meeting to sleep in. 


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

- schema docs should talk about how our goal is to accurately describe data in the wild... and some of these things we want to describe, we don't actually want to *encourage*.
  - More info about inline unions at https://specs.ipld.io/schemas/
- rodquote: with content addressed data, "the more locality the better"
  - like this phrasing of it as a continuum that you want to pursue
  - "trust practicality"
