# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-10-05

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey 
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - @jonnycrunch
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRETDr6rgrw


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Exploration Report "IPLD Data Model numbers and Ipld Codecs": https://github.com/ipld/specs/blob/19e572e4f0b71ed89b5eb4ea3132a1398cb96c05/design/history/exploration-reports/2020.10-data-model-numbers-and-codecs.md
   - tl;dr: Use a single integer (can be varints) and a single float type (64-bit IEEE-754 double) if possible
 - Rust Multihash: tiny-multihash is finally (after months of work) merged!: https://github.com/multiformats/rust-multihash/pull/82
   - Before release:
     - Make sure rust-cid works with it
     - Make sure libp2p works with it
     - Maybe look into whether Forest can use it (might be post-poned after the release)
 - Next:
   - WASM things
   - Look again into simple-dag
   - Expect PRs on codecs in regards to numbers 

@rvagg
 - js-dag-pb synced with newest js-multiformats
 - js-dag-json synced with newest js-multiformats
 - most of the week spent in Go, familiarising with go-ipld-prime from the codec-authoring perspective (dag-pb)
 - tinkering with other codec authoring things with ipld-prime
 - _public holiday yesterday for Aus, last week of school holidays this week, will be reduced hours most of the week_.

@mikeal
 - ported js-block to new multiformats
 - new team-mgmt doc/process
 - reviews and other management stuff

@chafey
 - js-graphsync spike completed!
     - worked through all libp2p issues (woot!)
 - finding various graphsync spec issues (still filing issues - will update specs later)
 - provided some support for fil-browser-retrieval guys on js-libp2p stuff (I guess I am an expert now)
 - wrote up a design document for js-graphsync, reviewed with @mikeal and made some tweaks
 - this week - will be implementing js-graphsync as per design
 - presentation on wednesday with @rvagg about scalable IPLD/IPFS data ingestion (filecoin master class)

@warpfork

- meeting with @mvdan and @willscott regarding ADLs
	- describing how we expect to interface with these things
	- discussing how a project like statediff might want to use these things
- finished and landed `fluent.Reflect` convenience tool: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/81
- reviewed simpledag
- internal communication to libp2p about codecs: https://protocollabs.slack.com/archives/CDF4W878S/p1601760596042300?thread_ts=1600797547.058500&cid=CDF4W878S
- working with @willscott on how to do things with IPLD Schemas.  statediff project is really exciting!
	- link information increase in codegen: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/91
- lit the fuse on string encoding and escaping discussions
	- initially this was part of an attempt to make a debug format... but it's sort of grown.
	- https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/89
- new rallying cry:  "Normalization is Mutation".
	- chant it with me!
	- saves a lot of wheel-spinning in the mud.  very simple rule.
	- IPLD standards can *recommend* ("SHOULD") normalizations; IPLD standards MUST NOT require them (domains and ranges of features must be defined independent of normalizations).
	- Mind: Escaping and Normalization are different things.
		- (e.g. UTF8-C8 is a form of escaping.  Whereas what some JSON implementations (e.g. golang stdlib's) do with flattening non-unicode sequences into \xfffd is *not* escaping; it's (_extremely_ lossy) normalization.)
- this coming week: I would like lots of help from the team on docs and starting to ratify some details in specs:
	- string encoding conversations
	- data model clarity, emphasis on things we expect to be bijections
	- clarity on structure of docs (agree which subjects should be siblings, etc, so we can align on a structure that doesn't shake)

## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

- long conversation about cbor and floats
	- many folks here are arguing that always using a 64bit encoding is simpler, and that makes it better.
	- there's a difference between "use smallest float" and "use smallest int" rules: the former is complicated and easy to get wrong; the latter is a very clear and simple table fully enumerated in the spec.
	- the CBOR spec is surprisingly vague about float canonicalization: it speaks in terms of "If a protocol allows for IEEE floats" and is primarily partial examples rather than full definitions.
