# ðŸ–§ IPLD Weekly Sync ðŸ™ŒðŸ½ 2020-12-07

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - @mvdan
  - @chafey
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWkTPHl8w-M

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Go HAMT ADL questions
  - Guidance for folks building DID


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - StoreTheHash: Storage for Content addressed data: https://github.com/vmx/storethehash

@mvdan
- started refactor of AsFoo error returns with automation (first 0.7 breaking change)
    - we ended up deciding *not* to do this, which I assume Eric will explain
- now onto the second 0.7 breaking change, int64 for sizes (which are now int)
- worked with Marten quite a bit on his revamp of CI with automated templates for our many repos
    - seemed in line with my plans to document CI best practices for Go
    - we're using the ipld org as a guinea pig, which is also getting us to fix tests and other small issues
- also reviewed a few PRs for Marten on quic-go; I offered since I noticed he's had a dozen PRs stuck for weeks (the original author is busy)
- spoke with more people about https://hackmd.io/SDPVsOWeQ7uLmjlxvlxtug
    - starting to think a language change is too big of a hammer. perhaps just vet or staticcheck.
- Happened upon the way go-ipfs exposes channels as iterators in their Go APIs...
    - I think it's a clever hack that has too many sharp edges. Feedback: https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/issues/4592#issuecomment-740104939

@warpfork
- we discovered we're backing down on the desire to remove errors from core interface
	- the need for ADLs to be able to operate transparently as nodes means we need errors.
- updated changelog (was overdue, became a mildly archeological process)
- assemblers for codegen'd struct types now validate all fields are present.  and, if some are missing, gives an error that says both the type name and its representation key string, if different.
	- (builds on @willscott's work a little while back which already finished this out for the map representation strategy on structs.)
- we are now ready to tag v0.6, I think!
	- we'll do this right before starting to land any API changes.
- probably going to continue to push on codec work and the linking API long-term-goal refactor later this week.
	- dreaming that this will be a target for January (but we'll see).

@rvagg
 - Go & Filecoin stuff, Actors-related work, data ingestion, misc hackery and maintainery, https://github.com/rvagg/go-dagpb

@riba
 - Ddrop & Fil-chain ingestion
     - Neither works yet, but super close
 - Dragged into miner relations, super-distracting :(

@willscott 
 - [go-ipld-graphql](https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-graphql) landed, tests finishing.

@chafey
 - js-graphsync - no progress

@yourname
 - _add what you've been working on_


## Notes

### Go HAMT ADL questions

 - Do we target a particular format of HAMT for Filecoin, or make it generic for the variations? Actors v3 replaces the keyed union with a kinded union.
   - @willscott: Stateroots are versioned => Using different HAMT implementations is not a problem.

### Guidance for folks building advanced structures w/ schemas etc.

  - (relayed from @eshon) Folks who are trying to build DID's and other highly-advanced-ADL / above-DM-stuff: do we have any sort of guidance for them at all? More and more folks ask her "what schemas do you guys have"?
    - we need to make the "getting things done with IPLD" doc more centrally linked, more primers, and more docs like that
    - Folks should please tell us what they are missing, send people directly to the IPLD team
    	- email
    	- irc (or matrix bridge)

