# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-08-03

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @ribasushi
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @willscott
  - @mikeal
  - @jonnycrunch
  - @rvagg

- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VSpXBsZk_Tw


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Further agreement on ditching "CBOR" or any other "known" name for the next iteration of the block-format


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust Multihash: mostly worked on https://github.com/ipfs-rust/tiny-multihash/pull/1 to simplify it, preparing it to be upstreamed
 - JS Multiformats: Use Uint8Array instead of Node.js Buffers throughout the API. @achingbrain was doing the work, I just reviewed and released things.

@rvagg 
 * AMT grokking and doc'ing
 * Test fixture system for cross-impl use, planning with Eric
 * Misc minor adventures

@ribasushi
 - More Fil adventures (non-IPLD related)
     - Start helping Yiannis with Fil-spec
 - Started looking at :dagger_knife:-as-wasm, and what would that entail
 - Work on DD got me wondering why commP is so slow: explored commP calculation through :dagger_knife: (it works) 
     - Ran into some non-commp-specific performance issues while exploring above, not enough time to investigate

@jonnycrunch
 - still working on [DID document in CBOR and dagCBOR](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#cbor)
 - welcome feedback
 - updating CBOR representation with proper COSE key format and dagCOSE
 - encrypted data stores with dagCOSE
 - pondering CBOR-LD over dagCBOR, 

@warpfork
 - go codegen for structs with tuple representation is done!  :tada:
   - this is an especially pleasing one because it's heavily used by folks who are sensitive to serial data size.  (looking at you, filecoin and lotus team.)
   - in particular, it's used by some HAMTs that we've been taking a closer look at again lately.
 - go codegen for unions with kinded representation is about 85%, expect it shortly.
 - pleasant surprise: the `Any` type we've known we'll need, but hadn't spec'd very thoroughly?  turns out to be quite easy after all...
   - it's a kinded union.  that's about it.  :D
   - turns out this codegen's fairly cleanly already with no special efforts.
 - go codegen may need addtn'l configuration in the future for whether to use pointers for assembler embeds...
   - what's the issue here?  cycles in type references mean embeding assemblers forms a cycle that would mean an infinite size struct: this (obviously) does not compile.
   - right now there's a couple cases in (especially) unions where the implementation mode of the union determines whether assemblers contain pointers; this is a convenient conflation, but a conflation nonetheless.
   - also may want this more generally: while it's true that unions with certain implementation modes can "break" the problematic cycle, that's... a coincidence, so to speak, and certainly shouldn't be the only way to deal with this.
 - Test fixture system for cross-impl use, as @rvagg already remarked.
 - Poking at what it would be like to implement a HAMT, while also using some of this codegen goodness.  Very early.

@mikeal
 - lots of doc progress
 - dagdb is ready for people to mess with


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

