# üñß IPLD Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2020-05-18

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @chafey
  - @ribasushi
  - @jonnycrunch
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sJgS-t6xes

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust IPLD: Fun alternative implementation by @sunny-g: https://github.com/datalove-app/rust-ipld
 - Graphsync: Not as much going on as I hoped. Rust Filecoing ([Forest](https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest/)) people will work on that soon
 - Test vectors for selectors: https://github.com/ChainSafe/ipld-traversal-vectors

@warpfork
 - absorbed by lots of non-technical work during $DAYJOB lately so not much to report for this channel, sadly
 - go-ipld-prime is sprouting a proper changelog document -- probably already overdue :)
   - also accumulating outlines of future expected API changes in this document, hopefully helpful for consumers wanting to plan change adoption, or contribute to these changes.

@jonnycrunch
- working on CBOR/dagCBOR on w3c did core spec: https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/282
- would love any feedback
- challenged with COSE signing of dagCBOR with only tag 42 
  - vmx: we now have DAG-COSE multicodec: https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/blob/bf5c4806e71d462d1ac9f232fef3b70e1a5c6dc4/table.csv#L50

@rvagg
 - Bitcoin, and more bitcoin
 - Have full block-to-CAR generator, well tested and working nicely
 - Working through the blockchain, finding new unicons that expose and break assumptions about how this works / should work
     - 64-byte transactions that break the length==64 bit check for binary merkle tree nodes
     - transactions with only a coinbase
     - old transactions that _look_ segwit but aren't

## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

@vmx Off on Thursday 2020-05-21

- we really ought to settle the float bit size encoding issue in dag-cbor
    - messagebus outcomes to jonnycrunch, there are other documents outside the ipld/specs repo he guides
