# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-07-27

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @warpfork
- **Attendees:**
  - @ribasushi
  - @chafey
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @willscott
  - @mikeal
  - @rvagg

- **Recording:** https://youtu.be/RUO67ONmAFc


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Does it make sense to create a dag-cbor-gzip codec?
  - Do we have any documentation about IPLD design patterns or best practices?
- _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust Multihash:
   - Wrote documentation about which functionality Multihash libraries should have (not published yet)
   - Trying to make less-alloc Multihash version simpler: https://github.com/ipfs-rust/tiny-multihash/pull/1


@warpfork
- more docs, in the docs repo
- doing some more research on ADLs...
	- looking at HAMTs in the wild (aka in filecoin/lotus) with Rod, extracting some "in practice" info from that
- a bit more code for golang codegen:
	- misc bits: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/61 (boring, don't look at it)
	- the gen of schema-schema: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/62 (awesome!  look at it!)
		- (I announced this a meeting or two ago, but it's finally clean'd of hacks, so it's ready to share, and that commit is destined for merge.)
		- there's a handful of interesting divergences from the schema-schema documents in the specs repo that might be interesting to review... but you can wait for those to show up in a specs repo PR; potæto potato.

@ribasushi
    - Working on my filecoin tester certification ( no IPLD-specific updates this round )

@chafey
- Dumbo Drop
    - Unifying configuration information with .json file (rather than env vars, cmd link args, etc)
    - Deterministic processing
- IPLD Documentation (Application development considerations)
    - WIP on configuration, logging, standing data, input files, output files, etc
- Played around with dagDB
- Much lower output due to two things
    - IRL distractions
    - rewriting documentation because I keep discovering new things

@rvagg
  - Docs & some suggestions for go-hamt-ipld https://github.com/ipfs/go-hamt-ipld/pull/52 for the Filecoin team (also see issues for some proposed changes)
  - Good chat with VulcanizeDB folks (with Eric), mainly focused on their Ethereum IPLD work, looking for ways to collaborate on the shared blockchain work we're doing - they could get help from our Bitcoin work and we could get help from their Eth work.
  - Small amount of CBOR tinkery.
  - Turned my JS Number CBOR ramblings into spec material for DAG-CBOR https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/283

@mikeal
  - [limbo](https://github.com/mikeal/limbo)
  - [ipjs](https://github.com/mikeal/ipjs)


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

- talking about compression
	- an argument in favor: sometimes you have data that's highly compressible; or, not; if there's no hint, does it waste cpu time?
	- what user story brings this up: it is desirable for users to have their first experiences of IPLD and *not* see their data "increase" in size.
	- review of the downsides...
		- it's very unlikely that at any moment in time, anyone can pick "the best" compression for some piece of data.
		- if you hash over the compression... change of compression...
			- changes your links!
			- breaks your dedup!
		- if you do this in a codec?
			- the above two points are still in full force.
		- putting compression choices in a codec means the choice is made once, and foisted on everyone else in a network who consumes that data.
	- what's the strength of utility for dag-cbor-gzip compared to raw-gzip?
		- open question
	- we need some guidance for developers who look at IPLD and might think that a lack of compression would be a non-starter for them.
		- :100:
		- documentation should talk about layering, etc
		- messaging should be about how you _do_ do this, not just how it's a bad idea.
	- what if: extend the block interface to have a _hint_ for if a block should be compressible?
	- what if: we use multiple blockstores, or something like that?
		- go-ipld-prime "LinkContext" sort of enables this -- hasn't been used in the wild for something like this.
	- how much cpu cost is there to attempting to compress already-compressed data (e.g. transport level compression happens on an already-compressed gzip file)?
		- @riba suggests this is very frequently going to be minimal, because compression system designers are usually designing and optmising with this in mind!
	- really important to talk about: how much **bloat** you get because various compressions make things non-deduplicatable.
		- in the wild, people compress things with different compressions *all the time*.  tragedy of the commons.
		- @riba has a story about compression algorithms consistency -- you think gzip is well standardized and common libraries will never change outputs for the same parameters?  well, no.

- Do we have any documentation about IPLD design patterns or best practices?
	- (not enough, surely!)
	- Reading the IPLD Schemas docs can help a lot.
		- Schemas encode a lot of best practices.
	- other guidance?
		- e.g. don't use timestamps when you want deduplication, etc
		- "be aware of the locality of your data"?
		- context vs self describing, how do you deal with this (application-specific!) question?
