# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2020-01-13

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @mikeal
  - @rvagg
  - @ribasushi
  - @mburns
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QoC_xsngf1g


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@mikeal
 - more ipldification of data from S3 buckets
     - allocator works
     - need to write the metadata w/ unixfsv1
 - reviews are going to consume lots of time

@rvagg
 - Finished up CAR parsing and creation in JS, https://github.com/rvagg/js-datastore-car - multiple ways of interacting depending on needs, including streaming versions. https://github.com/rvagg/js-datastore-zipcar updated with efficient streaming modes too.
 - https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/230 CAR spec, generating discussions about purpose of CAR and how much to constrain the spec. Currently in limbo while we figure some of these things out. It may be anywhere from a a strict deterministic root + full DAG to a lose bundle-of-blocks format or perhaps have multiple modes.
 - https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/233 issue for discussion of multiblock data structure validity, kicked off by @ribasushi's email on the topic.
 - New CBOR parser / encoder in progress.

@warpfork
- working on updated NodeBuilder interface.
	- recap: important realizations about performance ceilings forced a rethink on this fairly central interface.
	- going well!  have a fairly settled new draft of NodeBuilder, pulling together all of fall's experiments.
		- based on accumulating mutations
		- does *not* return intermediate progress -- that attempt (which would've kept the old interface) was possible, but costly (both in complexity and runtime).
		- some experiments attempted to accumulate errors (for ergonomics), but actual choice: nope.  return errors promptly at all points: most direct.
	- also probably keeping the 'NodeStyle' idea, described in our last meeting.
		- still seems to clarify several things.  (in particular, gives a way to punt out the 'Amend' methods for now, and yet clearly bring them back later.)
		- but it's turned out to not be on the hot dependency path for other things this week, so it's not been much fleshed out.
- drafting maps based on updated NodeBuilder... to benchmark; and to ensure complex keys remain possible.
	- support for complex keys (struct types with string representations -- a power feature) is HARD.
		- but it's working.
	- now have a draft of typed maps which perform reasonably well -- within about 200% of the speed of native maps.
		- this is with: all our interface support, immutablity and builder infrastructure, and order tracking -- significantly more featureful than golang's builtin maps, hence the costs.
		- good news is: all of the allocations are successfully amortized.  whew.  this took work.
		- **iteration works also without boxing allocations**.  this also took work.  previous system did *not* have this and it would've been very problematic.
	- expect more reports from the 'free' implementation (has no types and no codegen) of maps soon.
		- will probably also get quite a bit faster than the current ipldfree package's maps; most of same amortizations work (though slightly differently).
- (also probably super out of sync after holiday and on the verge of declaring email bankrupcy, ping me unrepentantly on things i seem to miss)
- @rvagg: discussion on `NodeStyle` naming: https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt/pull/49#discussion_r360223760

@vmx
  - Rust CBOR library ([serde_cbor](https://github.com/pyfisch/cbor)) has tag support! Thanks @rklaehn!
      - !!!! :tada:
  - This week: catching up after vacations
