# ðŸ–§ IPLD Weekly Sync ðŸ™ŒðŸ½ 2021-01-25

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @mvdan 
  - @ribasushi
  - @mikeal
  - @chafey
  - @willscott 
  - @jonnycrunch
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=36KYFl0t33M


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - CIDs for content routing:
    - use case: [Add SoftWare Heritage persistent IDentifiers #203](https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/203#issuecomment-765111788)
    - broader topic: [Qualifications for identification as a "codec" (#204)](https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/issues/204)
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Thinking about IPLD Schemas. Should they be something that is not an ADL? https://hackmd.io/wPFIhz0GSB-0nBcxZbg3kQ
 - Verified yet another js-cid TypeScript types fix: https://github.com/multiformats/js-cid/pull/139
 - WASM: multi-value returns (part of WebAssembly 1.1) is what you'd want to use:
   - Doesn't work with pure Rust (without [wasm-bindgen](https://rustwasm.github.io/docs/wasm-bindgen/)): https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/73755
   - wasm-bindgen does some tricks I was able to extract to make use of multi-value returns though: https://github.com/vmx/wasm-multi-value-reverse-polyfill

@warpfork
- work continues on connecting the schema DMT types with the schema interfaces in go-ipld-prime
	- refresher: had originally hoped to do this by simply unifying the two... but this did not fly, largely due to an import cycle
	- what's going on now is i'm implementing a "compiler" for the schemas, and data flows dmt->compiler->schema.
	- if you want to watch progress: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/tree/schema-dmt-unification
		- there's an overview of "why" on this design here: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/blob/schema-dmt-unification/schema/HACKME_compiler.md
	- this has been... let's say un-fun.  miles of boilerplate.  (literally, thousands of lines.)
		- lots of functions like `func (dmt StructRepresentation_Stringjoin) compile() schema.StructRepresentation {` that just shuffle one structure into another isomorphic structure
		- ... while generally making the outcome _worse_ (e.g., losing all the immutability that codegen had already given us; golang maps don't maintain order so some compiler error messages got less deterministic; etc)
		- on the bright side: at least maybe it's good that there's no direct dependency of our schema info types (that codegen must consume to operation) onto our dmt types (which are generated), because it ensures we'll be unlikely to have bootstrapping problems during future updates.
			- on the flip side of the same coin: yeah, it continues to mean we'll have to do type out data structures for new features twice, too.
	- current status: most of it compiles again now!  some tests are even ported.
		- still need to update many codegen tests, which use the old placeholder schema constructors.
			- will probably update them to use new compiler.  could also try to jump straight to JSON parsed through dmt then fed to compiler.  but seems like a big jump.
		- still some more x2 = x boilerplate to crank out.
	- maybe interesting even to other languages: here's the "rules" table of other validations on type declarations we're doing:
		- https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/compare/ipld:0b3adb9...ipld:eed03b4#diff-7cadb382396763086f95707f345574444da682f4a26e755da3565235b5cd5207R65-R307
			- (probably not a stable link -- I doubt this branch is done being rebased -- but just look for 'rules' in the 'compiler_rules.go' file.)
- contribution to the encryption discussion: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/348
	- though it's very possible this has been eclipsed by other discussions now
	- notice: I did not have a large (or any) block of time allocated for this in January, so, this is published as-in, but is not a ball I intend to hold nor carry anywhere at the moment

@mvdan 
- Made good progress on the HAMT ADL
  - Finished up map iteration which exposes keys as String
  - Added the "filecoin v3" mode alongside the existing IPLD spec mode
  - In filecoin mode, the prototype parameters are hard-coded, the bitmap Bytes is a big.Int, and the representation skips over the "root" node with the HAMT parameters.
- Currently fiddling with go-hamt-ipld to get a small map to cbor-encode the same with both libraries
  - Nearly there actually! The bitmap is just acting up.
- Wrote the "CI best practices for Go" doc, thanks to Marten and Eric for the reviews: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/pull/92
- More code reviews for encoding/json "v2"

@ribasushi
- *nearly* done with sqlotus
    - Successfully got multiple indeendent instances to run off the same datastore with no conflicts
    - Ended up having to write a simplistic caching layer myself ( there are no go caching solutions with a cost-watermark and the ability to cache arbitrary items )
    - Few setbacks in backfilling the datastore with blocks - badger is really bad at "giving a list back", should have a process in place running today/tomorrow, should finish within a week or so
    - Planning checks out: this setup will last us ~7 years on a plain postgres instance
- Next steps:
    - chat with a pg consultancy on the dark corners of replication / what to keep in mind
    - get an actual library for @willscott to use

@mikeal
 - encrypted block spec changes
 - IPSQL
  - S3 backend
  - sql engine rewrite

@jonnycrunch
 - Working through this DID issue: https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/551
   - If you don't want DAG-CBOR to be removed, please chime in

## Notes

Request to update our weekly protocol: Let's add a "called shots" section to our notes.

This can be quick sentence or two about what we're each expecting to focus on in the coming week.
We don't have to hold to those goals strictly, but announcing them at all might help focus.
It also gives an opportunity to check in with each other on whether that goal seems important, early.

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

