# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2021-02-22

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @ribasushi
  - @willscott
  - @rvagg 
  - @warpfork 
  - @mikeal
  - @mvdan 
  - @carsonfarmer
  - @chafey
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=anJQ9hz4bnA


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - (@vmx) go-ipld-prime in IPFS:
    - Do you also deal with the IPFS Object API?
    - Do you think about deprecating IPLD Codecs like the Ethereum one (is there currently one?)?


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Done: Trying to get js-ipfs-unixfs use the [new JS DAG-PB Codec implementation](https://github.com/ipld/js-dag-pb)
   - UnixFS part easy, hard part is js-ipfs as it uses the DAG (IPLD) API internally, which then also would need that update. But that update would then also include an upgrade to [js-multiformats](https://github.com/multiformats/js-multiformats), which is tricky. It is a completly new API as has breaking changes for CIDs
     - Current idea: Do then encoding/decoding and storing of data within js-ipfs without using the current JS IPFS DAG API
 - Next: Continuing with that js-ipfs js-multiformats transition

@mvdan
 - json v2 experiment started being published at https://github.com/go-json-experiment/json
 - started doing research for ipld-prime-based ipfs node modifications
     - we're collecting notes for ipld in ipfs here: https://hackmd.io/KnC0cZGPRvSQG0g8Z9OMXw
     - will sync with Eric on the API design

@willscott 
 - Started on go-ipld-git for ipld-prime
 - helping figure out soping of work on ipld-prime integration into IPFS

@warpfork
- would like to think about fixture formats.  draft exploration report: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/357
- looking at that new json stuff @mvdan linked!  it's exciting.
	- we will probably be able to use this to make nicer dag-json in the future.
	- still thinking about if we can reuse the token concept here more widely (e.g. for dag-cbor)?  less likely.

@riba
- nothing this week / super-chaotic last week :(

@carsonfarmer
- Nothing specific this week from me (or Textile). Just came off a big 2-week "research" sprint around DIDs and threads, services.


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->
- (@willscott) what is the distinction between https://github.com/ipld/go-codec-dagpb and https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime-proto
  - The answer is that `go-ipld-prime-proto` provides a prime view on top of the older ipld-format dag service, while `go-codec-dagpb` provides a native `ipld-prime` implementation of the dagpb codec.
  - More context from @rvagg: go-ipld-prime-proto reaches into go-merkledag/pb for pb decoding and doesn't currently implement encoding at all, it's used to get dag-pb support into graphsync for filecoin. go-codec-dagpb has its own pb implementation that adheres to the strict dag-pb spec and doesn't allow the sloppy decoding that regular pb does and interprets the data model form of dag-pb slightly differently, as per current spec -- this might seem odd, but it's entirely reasonable to see the data differently, depending on your opinions, it's just that we iterated through the spec process to arrive at something that we could implement consistently across JS and Go and satisfies all parties. go-codec-dagpb and js-dag-pb are twins, you can look at the pb code in each and they look almost the same, just with different syntax and the tests are mirrors of each other too so we finally have a unified data model. go-ipld-prime-proto interprets the data model more like a minor iteration on how go-merkledag/pb interprets it in its Go structs. Not huge differences with go-codec-dagpb but there's some subtle differences with optional items, what to do with omitted items in decoded bytes and some strictness underneath it all. This data model interpretation piece is the big flaw in our historical dag-pb approach, JS & Go have had very different interpretations and neither really took a pure-IPLD approach anyway because these things predate IPLD as a separate thing and come well before the data model. So this harmonisation work was important to pull them into alignment and solidify the current IPLD vision of the world and the data model (particularly as it's instantiated in ipld-prime).

- (@vmx) go-ipld-prime in IPFS:
  - Do you also deal with the IPFS Object API?
    - Adin is open to make changes to the API
    - @willscott will open issues about the Object and DAG API to talk about current uses, so that we can make decisions on how to move forward
  - Do you think about deprecating IPLD Codecs like the Ethereum one (is there currently one?)?
    - Vulcanize might look into Ethereum Codecs
    - @vmx will talk to JS IPFS folks about not upgrading the Ethereum Codec when moving to js-multiformats

- (@chafey) What about collisions in content-addressed data systems?
  - People have interest in creating colissions for Bitcoin wallets, they don't succeed. So have it happen by accident is even more unlikely
  - Talk about probabilities, e.g. in "nines" as in uptimes in SLAs
