# 🖧 IPLD every two weeks sync 🙌🏽 2021-07-19

- **Lead:** @warpfork
- **Notetaker:** @warpfork
- **Attendees:**
  - @mvdan
  - @warpfork
  - @ribasushi
  - several community folks!
- **Recording:** informal week -- no recording

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@mvdan
 - no bindnode (reflection) update
 - updated the HAMT ADL for ipld-prime v0.10
     - https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-adl-hamt/pull/23
 - really close to CARv2 v2.0.0-beta1
     - API finished
     - just one blockstore semantics PR I'm slightly stuck on
 - go-multicodec.Code now implements flag.Value
     - https://github.com/multiformats/go-multicodec/pull/51
     - https://github.com/multiformats/go-multicodec/pull/52
     - As per the last PR, allows integers like `0x11` as input too

@warpfork
 - @rvagg and I worked on some schema-schema features that were long overdue last week
    - There was a short flurry of PRs.
    - Things like anon links in unions are being correctly specified.
    - I still owe us some PRs for `unit` typekind (to replace null) and `any` typekind.

@yourname
 - _add what you've been working on_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

- CAR stuff:
   - CIDs...
      - the multihash vs CID thing comes up again.
      - index is multihash-based.
   - deduplication...
      - it's not quite free, but also you probably do want it by default?
      - does it need a safety check?  if you allow repeats, the index will seek to the first one.
         - so if the second one is a different value, that's bad news.
      - some folks have requested Put operations should deduplicate by CID _and not_ by multihash.
      - default is to deduplicate by multihash, can turn it off if you want.
         - there's a mode for deduplicate by CID, too.

- Some folks joined us :D
   - Wanting to put the golang HAMT ADL to work.
      - Could use some more examples.
      - Also especially for coupling to CARs.
         - Quick answer: right now it is recommended to use NewSelectiveCar API of go-car v1 in order to work with ipld-prime style Nodes.
         - Agreed more examples and more API smoothing could be desirable here
