# 🖧 IPLD every two weeks sync 🙌🏽 2021-05-10

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @willscott
  - @rvagg
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nYVZP6tILk



## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@warpfork
- I would like to unveil you: a new unified docs/specs/libraries/everything site!
	- The site presently: https://empty-grass-9837.on.fleek.co/
	- The sauce: ipld/ipld

@willscott
- go-ipfs absorbing go-ipld-prime work is still being uptaken
	- we got a branch with all those changes running on the gateways and took pprofs to look for performance regressions.
		- we're not seeing any concerning regressions!
	- `ipfs dag get` commands... and the `--encoding=dag-json` flags...
		- there's a whole separate repo for these commands (fun)
		- implementing stuff that looks for the new node interfaces, and can work with arbitrary codec numbers -- cool
		- but not everything that gets passed through this library is an ipld node; a bunch of other
		- so, decision to be asldkjflaskjdfssssssssssssss???
		- there's the CLI apis and the HTTP APIs... and they aren't serializing in the same place?

[other]
- What's up with @mvdan's reflection thing?
	- warpfork: I'm so very very excited about it.
	- Progress bar: well, we'll see.
		- Good news: almost all of the tests from the schema codegen approach are reusable!
			- So when we say it's done and feature matching, we'll mean it with resonable confidence!
		- A lot of struct stuff works, iiuc
		- Unions are in progress


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

