# üñß IPLD every two weeks sync üôåüèΩ 2023-09-11

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @rvagg
  - @vmx
  - @aschmahmann
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KPLbNju5s5w

Next meeting is 2023-10-09.

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Rust ecosystem news:
     - `multihash` bugfix release: Regression with Serde + no_std
     - `serde_ipld_dagcbor` bugfix release: better large integer handling (more to come)

@rvagg
 - JS:
     - ESM releases of various components: @multiformats/sha3, @multiformats/blake2, cborg
     - Updates / fixes to unixfs and work by two other teams on traversal and verification of Trustless Gateway through JS
 - Go:
     - go-car releases with some new features and fixes
     - https://github.com/ipld/go-trustless-utils with Trustless Gateway pathing and traversal utilities and types

@aschmahmann
   - Filecoin Piece Multihash (v2 Piece CID) spec proposal FRC-0069
     - Minimal: https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/pull/758
     - More Featureful: https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/pull/808
     - Some interesting "ideas" here like:
       - What are CIDs for (IMO verifiability)
       - What's reasonable to put in the multihash digest?

## Notes

Valuable Multibase discussions @rvagg mentioned: https://github.com/multiformats/multibase/pull/109


<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->
