# 🖧 IPLD every two weeks sync 🙌🏽 2022-03-14


- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @warpfork
  - @mohsin
  - @ribasushi
  - @RangerMauve
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @biglep
  - @miyazono
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uVw5r9_vk28

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@mvdan
 - No more blockers or reports from GraphSync that I can see
 - Fuzzed bindnode, schemas, and dagcbor - fixed a handful of bugs already
     - need to look into trailing bytes in dagcbor decodes
 - Masih wanted to use `Any` in storetheindex, so it seems like they're looking at using bindnode
     - he's running into "typed link" issues at the moment, might need to prioritise https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/272 

@rvagg
 - not much to report, lots of bindnode usage, but been unwell otherwise

@rangermauve
- Prepping initial PR for checklist
- Going to do some docs updates
- IPLD protocol handlers? :o

@warpfork
- Some IPLD Patch drafts are out!
  - Spec and fixtures: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/pull/187
  - Go implementation: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/350
  - Some remarks...
    - I put this in its own package pretty far down (up?) in the tree, so nothing core relies on this.  For now.
    - We might merge it as an "alpha" that remains subject to change (possible, due to above).
    - ... Mohsin's got some ideas about running with it as part of incremental updates, though!
- I've been re(re-re) drawing the "what-is-ipld.png" image lately, and seeing if I can make it clearer.
  - Drafts of this might get posted soon.
- Elsewhere...
  - Some folks have been thinking about CAR determinism again.  FTR: CARs don't formally require deterministic order.  But there is such a definition, and in practice all of our libraries do it already.  So if you want this: it's very describable.

@mohsin
 - Added more notes + links to prototype implementations for IPLD incremental updates [here](https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/320).

@yourname
 - _add what you've been working on_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

@miyazono

 - Bluefund:
   - Funding things that won't get VC, for people that autonomously can build cool things
   - For things that if they would have money, would generate great things
   - Currently funding comes from PL, but hopefully from other from the ecosystem as well
   - Q: What is the difference between dev-grants and Bluefunds?
     - dev-grants: I have an idea, can you please fund me
     - Bluefunds: I have an idea, can we please find someone who can build it
   - Bluefunds are more flexible than dev-grants, could e.g. be also about funding hacking events
   - Bluefund idea: B+-trees for IPLD: If you want to work on that, contact us!
   - Q: What are the mechanics of the Bluefunds:
     - If someone proposes something, it would be a lightweight partnetship, most work would be done by the one who is proposing/working on it.
   - Form: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxlevRDgtsvG1wXzP2TRkDWFoIYVYT5U8Gs3nodYTPDw3PHg/viewform?usp=sf_link

- jonnycrunch
    - Likes `/ipld/` handlers https://github.com/ipfs/in-web-browsers/issues/182#issuecomment-1062452362
    - Looking at using IPLD instead of JWTs (UCAN)
