# üñß IPLD every two weeks sync üôåüèΩ 2022-12-05

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @rvagg
  - @vmx
  - @RangerMauve
  - @AlexxNica
  - @bumblefudge
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0_KC5rOneaE


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - (@vmx) Defining a strict and lax versions of DAG-CBOR codec
  - (@vmx) What do we do with non-cryptograhic hashes: https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/301
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@RangerMauve
- Progressing on IPLD WG, interviewed 8 people
- Prolly trees in review, hoping to finalize before holidays
	- https://github.com/ipld/ipld/pull/254
	- https://github.com/ipfs/devgrants/issues/257

@rvagg
    - Many small things, some notable items:
        - merged fix in @ipld/schema to help support reading filecoin chain data
        - helping with go-ipld-adl-hamt fix to support reading filecoin chain data and passing spec fixtures
        - multicodec table space for non-cryptographic hash functions - https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/301 and https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/303
        - merged ipns dag-cbor fixtures to codec-fixtures (thanks SionioS) - https://github.com/ipld/codec-fixtures/pull/76
        - dig is working on getting dag-pb passing fully for Rust - https://github.com/ipld/codec-fixtures/pull/78
        - someone's trying to use our cbor encoder for JS Structured Clone support (this is _not_ in scope for our use, but kind of interesting) - https://github.com/rvagg/cborg/issues - https://jimmywarting.github.io/3th-party-structured-clone-wpt/
        - helping to get new ipld.io site launched, still some TODOs left https://github.com/ipld/ipld/pull/256
        - multiformats @ IETF https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/dispatch/Q9aUoF01Upbvl7STjJvjoU8hlHM/

@vmx
  - News from the Rust ecosystem
      - We have a PR for spec compliant DAG-PB for `libipld` (Rust IPLD): https://github.com/ipld/libipld/pull/170

@bumblefudge
 - Just doing the [CASA](https://github.com/chainagnostic/casa) things
     - IPLD eyes will eventually be requested once these two repos ([multidid](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/multidid/pulls), [varsint](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/varsig/pulls)) get a little more mature-- both specs for making IPLD useful for uniform logging of various web3-y use-cases for UCAN-based and other OCAP-based AuthN/Z stuff


## Notes

### multiformats @ IETF

- https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/dispatch/Q9aUoF01Upbvl7STjJvjoU8hlHM/
- @bumblefudge and Manu working on getting an email out to people that have contributed to multiformats so they can have a show-of-support for IETF to help move it forward

### non-cryptographic hashes

- Two PRs about non-cryptographic hashes are open - https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/301 and https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/303
- Resolved to move forward with `hash` label for now, see comments @ https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/pull/301#issuecomment-1338203822


### dag-cbor strictness

- Volker has been having discussions about dag-cbor strictness and the possibility of introducing non-strict variant for various purposes where determinism is not necessary and there may be benefits in breaking the rules
- Discussed use-cases for canonical forms, e.g. efficiency of encoding and how the dag-cbor spec is currently a "must" for strict encoding but since our codecs are all tollerant on decode of sloppy data that it _could_ be read as a "should"
- Discussed space for new codec that has strong strictness - this has been covered a number of times over the years but as yet there hasn't been demand (or things haven't broken hard enough with the current state of our codecs which are all uniform for the moment)


### next meeting (skipping)

- Next meeting will not have enough people to facilitate, so we'll be skipping until next year - the _next_ sync will be on the 2nd of January.


<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

