# üñß IPLD every two weeks sync üôåüèΩ 2022-03-28


- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @RangerMauve
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg 
  - @willscott
  - @aschmahmann
  - @Jorropo
  - @petar
  - @mvdan
  - @biglep 
  - @warpfork 
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wNkTUBYJHzw

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_
  - Organizational: Can we set up a team on GitHub that folks can ping for reviews? e.g. with rvagg on it (who else should be on there?) (@Mauve)


## Weekly Update

@yourname
 - _add what you've been working on_

@RangerMauve
    - Drafting up IPLD URI Spec
    - Reworking structure of IPLD implementors checklist
    - Organizational: Can we set up a team on GitHub that folks can ping for reviews? e.g. with rvagg on it (who else should be on there?) (@Mauve)

@mvdan
 - wrapped up fuzzing bindnode+dagcbor
   - all schema and bindnode bugs spotted fixed
   - now running into dagcbor decoding strictness TODOs
   - we've agreed to add a "be strict" opt-in knob
   - https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/389
   - https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/390
 - allow nilable types as optional/nullable in bindnode
   - right now it requires pointers; `*ipld.Link` is tricky
   - https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/378
 - code reviews
 - FYI Rod: in a near timezone the week of April 4th

@rvagg
 - Out sick, getting back into gear this week
 - Gozala has an interesting feature addition to js-car, buffered writer that writes directly into an existing (or pre-allocated from estimate) byte array: https://github.com/ipld/js-car/pull/70

@willscott
 - hamt as a [ADL](https://github.com/filecoin-project/go-hamt-ipld/pull/70)
 - taking another pass on car [partial writes](https://github.com/ipld/go-car/pull/291/files) to incorporate the [ipld prime linksystem traversal](https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/354) proposal

@warpfork
 - misc stuff...
 - links as map keys: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/issues/192
   - something that people recurringly want, and is clearly a good idea -- but details of spec of how to handle this are not pinned fully down.
 - did I mention lenses yet?   Exploration report: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/pull/190

@aschmahmann
- Spent some time last week speccing out [Reframe](https://github.com/ipfs/specs/pull/272)
  - Request + Response protocol using IPLD to move data around where methods are defined with IPLD Schemas. Initial goalpost is for handling routing requests (i.e. the types of things the IPFS Public DHT tends to handle) for extensibility.
  - Ran into some Schema limitations:
    - Fallbacks for unions (bigger deal and hopefully easier) https://github.com/ipfs/specs/pull/272/files#r836653634
    - Non-string based unions (a bit awkward) https://github.com/ipfs/specs/pull/272/files#r835581064
- Spent some weekend time on a BitTorrent file ADL + bencode codec, a lot taken from Will's work on UnixFS ADLs.
  - Repos forthcoming once I've got time to get basic functionality
  - Interesting questions raised around whether logic for existing formats lives in codecs, ADLs, etc.



## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

 - Organizational: Can we set up a team on GitHub that folks can ping for reviews? e.g. with rvagg on it (who else should be on there?) (@Mauve)
   - rvagg: Can we use existing teams for this? https://github.com/orgs/ipld/teams
   - mauve: potential teams: https://github.com/orgs/ipld/teams/close-collaborators https://github.com/orgs/ipld/teams/core
   - rvagg: ok, we GitHub teams but they're intended for access so might not be good to reuse for review mentions.. we have, for each language: `go-team`, `javascript-team`, etc.. even a `swift-team`.. but I wouldn't want all 26 members of javascript-team to be mentioned for review!
   - vmx: perhaps adding a code owners file?
       - @biglep: I believe codeowners will make clear who to reach out to (good), but relies on someone @mentioning everyone.  GitHub PR assignment based on codeowners will pick someone from codeowners.  I think the best case is to have a team and also set that team as the codeowner.
   - @biglep: it may be good to discuss the usecases we need to solve.  Without knowing more, I think we create a team like ipld-maintainers?   
   - Daniel: I think pinging an entire team if you're not sure who is responsible is fine, FWIW. better than not pinging the right person at all. 
   - in case it is useful for related reference, here is the recent issue about go-ipld-prime contribution policy proposal: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/issues/370

 - Edelweis presentation by @petar (at ~33:00min):
   - what is the relation between reframe and edelweiss? they sound similar at a high level  
   - The Edelweiss project is located here: https://github.com/ipld/edelweiss





















