# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2019-09-30

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
- **Recording:** https://youtu.be/egJJqdoVf6U


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->


### Weekly Update

@vmx
 - DagCbor for Rust:
   - Exploration report about it: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/198
   - Prototype: https://github.com/vmx/rust-ipld-dag-cbor
     - Based on this PR: https://github.com/pyfisch/cbor/pull/151

@warpfork
  - several more tries at what natively-typed codegen'd builders should look like
    - problem summary: expressing things {correctly}, {performantly}, and {ergonomically} all at the same time is easier said than done.
      - surprisingly, "correctly" itself is a bit tricky, because a syntax that covers both nulls, the expression of absent fields, and the possibility of doing an update to only a subset of a struct... it's +3 cardinality.  What syntax is good at that?
    - accumulated new options, and started gathering some performance data (some of it fascinating)
      - https://gist.github.com/warpfork/631ccbf0be8d88b19b51ac797eaa5d25
    - no final resolution yet (but getting closer)

@rvagg
  - Small amount of work on schemas
  - Deep-dive into Filecoin, learning about its use of IPLD

@mikeal
  - most of week was off (only on for 2 days)
  - we need to send SSZ feedback this week
  - got caught up doing a lot of metrics stuff :(
  - schema-gen needs to be re-written this week


### Discussion

#### Docs!

Mikeal: we have no docs, we've deleted our "docs" repo, we have a book with half a page. My preference is to try and put content into the book.

_Discussed keeping it up to date with things changing so rapidly_

_Discussed specs repo and user-facing docs and how to do both_

Mikeal: specs repo should be implementers, book should be user-facing, we shouldn't do user-facing docs for things we don't have implementer details.

Volker: IPLD isn't really user-facing, there's not much to document.

Mikeal: the way we think about building data structures in IPLD isn't really documented. We've established terminology and a way of thinking about these things that we haven't documented.

_Discussed location, linking and updating_

Mikeal: let's focus on specs/ and write README.md docs that are intended to be user-facing, while the rest of the docs are implementer focused.
