# 🖧 IPLD Every-two-weeks Sync 🙌🏽 2019-06-10

- **Lead:** @mikeal
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:** @mikeal @rvagg @warpfork
- **Recording:** https://youtu.be/myfn7V5Yuic

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Two-week Update
  - Generics / advanced data structures

## Notes

### Two-week Update

@mikeal

- Porting UnixFSv2 implementation to the new generics work (js-types), going well, brought them far along
- Generics spec https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/126, not as happy with it after talking to @warpfork, it's very specific to the JS implementation

@warpfork

- "Identifying the critical decisions in IPLD advanced data structure design" https://gist.github.com/warpfork/b315f3518207075b7044f35a0a15d17a (in progress) - advanced data / generics - which pieces are critical, which are orthoganal.
  - Signalling problem - that we have one of these things
  - Referencing problem - how we refer to the implementation of this thing
  - Having-the-implementation problem - whether we can even do anything with it
  - Original discussion while in Berlin: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/pull/72
  - Will talk more about this below
- Selectors: more work on a selectors spec, old one is redundant now given new work (https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/116), will have a new PR for discussion soon. Creating a more clear separation of 'explorers' and 'matchers'.

@rvagg

- Integration of HashMap/HAMT into js-types
  - Trying hard to keep the algorithm completely abstracted
  - Working on interfaces that interact with the algorithm in a generic way - how to scale this to other algorithms for different collections
  - Traversal block-by-block the biggest change, replace "give me a way to get blocks" with "I've traversed this block, if you want me to continue, give me a new one with this identifier"
- HashMap/HAMT spec, nearly complete, probably have a PR today, extends from https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/109

## Generics / advanced data structures

- @mikeal: current approaches are stop-gap prior to WebAssembly (or something similar?) where algorithms can be _with_ the data, i.e. identifier for algorithm/type is a string but that will eventually become an object, the signalling, referencing and having-an-implementation problems are curretly combined.
- @warpfork: these things don't get easier by combining them or saying they will be combined in the future
- @rvagg: is this discussion about @warpfork saying there are 3 distinct problems (above: signalling, referencing, etc.) vs @mikeal saying those 3 problems become one in the WebAssembly utopia?
- @mikeal: yes
- @warpfork: sometimes we want to abstract them and traverse transparently, but sometimes we need to dig into them more manually (e.g. selectors). e.g. say we do video streaming, we'd want to left-leaning tree traversal / syncing.
- @rvagg: i.e. As soon as you break out of the WebAssembly utopia you end up having to deal with those 3 distinct problems again. So you're either fully in WebAssmbly utopia and never outside of it or you have to deal with these problems.
- @mikeal: you can do this all now, the algorithm can perform these kinds of operations and syncing can just deal with the raw blocks+links
- @rvagg: probably similar to a language standard library - you either have the algorithm+data structure you need or you don't, you rarely (most languages: never) go dealing with the raw memory layout behind the algorithm+data.
- @warpfork: compare with schemas: schemas don't break data-model rules, they are transparent, you can read a block without schemas or one with and you end up with the same powers. Advanced types can break data-model rules, e.g. "can't add keys named 'foo' in this map". If that's not self-describing then we end up having to escape or error. So if someone generates data without the type system but uses the same signal and the type system interprets you can end up with breakage.
- _This discussion is about the current `"_type"` property which may switch to using `"/"` as a reserved space_
- _Discussion devolved into whether dag-json is "IPLD native" or not_
- _Discussion returned to signalling and referencing_
- @mikeal: the signal / refernce needs to be _in_ the data, or in the root block at least
- @warpfork: what about fat-pointers? context is in the link, or alongside the link. As far as I'm aware there are no "hard problems" if the signalling is done in the schemas.
- @mikeal: the problem is if I need to link to your data and I don't have the schema.
- @warpfork: context is important everywhere, to interpret many kinds of data you need to step a layer out.
- @mikeal: we need to be able to span the internet, we need to be able to link to other people's data and to interpret my data you shouldn't need a huge amount of context about where you're going to end up.
- @warpfork: context could be reserved whenever you do a "hard jump" across data structures, the context comes along with the reference to that new thing. Similar to changing codec in CID when you jump between data encoded in different form.
- _Mikeal dropped temporarily, discussion continued trying to clarify concerns: @warpfork's primary concern is that we end up with reserved words and no escaping mechanism, why not avoid that problem for now by providing the context alognside the link. Further discussion about signalling mechanism needing to be somewhere._
