# üñß IPLD Bi-Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2018-04-01

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @aschmahmann
  - @vmx
  - @mikeal
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @jimpick
- **Recording:** https://youtu.be/5sDonP-w4vk


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Nested IPLD Formats
  - dag-json _(deferred till next meeting)_
  - identity multihash

## Notes

### Two-week Update

@vmx
 - New JS-IPLD API is finally merged:
   - https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld/pull/190
   - https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld/pull/191
 - Lots of API discussions in th JS-IPLD world
  - https://github.com/ipld/interface-ipld-format/pull/51
  - https://github.com/ipld/interface-ipld-format/issues/52
  - https://github.com/ipld/interface-ipld-format/issues/53
  - https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld/issues/194
  - https://github.com/ipld/ipld/issues/64
  - https://github.com/ipld/ipld/issues/67
 - API discussions made me write down thoughts on the IPLD architecture (that could be interesting also to people outside of the JS world):
  - https://gist.github.com/vmx/88205c0ff4b9b55be2a6a3cd2df81e6e

@mikeal
  - unixfs-v2 updated to latest spec (still cbor only tho) https://github.com/mikeal/js-unixfsv2-draft
  - docs are up for the summit in Berlin
  - we need to make a decision on the direction of dag-json because it impacts other issues like this "inline block" case.
    - either 1. inline binary sucks and people shouldn't use it or 2. inline binary work great but the format isn't strictly JSON
  - did anyone else know about identity multihashes? do we account for these anywhere?  

@warpfork
  - traversal.Focus is a go
    - github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/7
  - working on selectors
    - "globstar"
    - this is interesting
  - has anyone else notice the copypasta for these events is one space
    - seriously do you edit text
      - what

@rvagg
  - working on a Map implementation, CHAMP/HAMT, feels like a JavaScript `Map` but immutable and asynchronous
  - lots of questions raised: what is the final serialized form? what's optimal branching factor? what's the optimal bucket size? when is in-line vs linked entry storage best? pluggable hash? which side of the hash to nibble from?
  - getting to 100% test coverage of main facade and lots of docs to allow discussion and spec work, hopefully have it up in the next couple of days

### Nested IPLD Formats

 - Inline blocks have come up a lot on GitHub in discussions about Block and Format layers and their separation, @gozala has been helpful in pushing for a boxed encoded format
 - @mikeal: could use CID with `identity` hash which makes the data inline, inside the CID itself
   - The rest of the ecosystem is built around the assumption that the CID is something that's returned and is used to look up the next thing
   - This seems to solve the inline-block problem, but doesn't help with with parameterisation
 - @vmx: but is this the solution we want?
 - @mikeal: it breaks dag-json because you end up with small metadata and large base64 data
 - @vmx: deeply nested becomes very messy
 - @vmx: seems like a good way to start playing with this idea
 - @rvagg: is this an ideal or a shoehorn? it feels like a shoehorn for backward compatibility
 - @mikeal: it keeps linking semantics in place which makes sense for in-line blocks, encoded blocks will still need additional metadata to know what to do with it
 - @aschmahmann: what's the use-case of this?
 - @mikeal: the CID is a good way of packaging additional metadata for encryption plus you also need to be able to reference it. If you make it a separate block then the hash won't match. Using a CID to store encrypted data provides a way to box them in a wrapper that can contain the metadata.

### Summit

 - @mikeal: check out the docs I've shared with agendas for the different parts of the summit. Also looking at booking an AirBnB for the team offsite portion.
 