# ðŸ–§ IPLD Weekly Sync ðŸ™ŒðŸ½ 2019-12-09

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @riba
- **Recording:** ttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SlZO1e4Jy9E


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@warpfork
- It's shipped: readme about memory characteristics: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/blob/research-admissions/schema/gen/go/HACKME_memorylayout.md
  - along with various other experiments on interfaces on that branch
  - I'm going to need another pair of eyes on this to continue; impactful choices.

@vmx
 - No IPLD related news

@riba
 - No IPLD related updates

@rvagg
 - zipcar - efficient interfaces for large datasets, streaming - https://github.com/rvagg/js-ds-zipcar/pull/1
 - car - https://github.com/rvagg/go-car-example (+ some good, but simple go-ipld-prime dogfooding)
 - vector (sharray) - https://github.com/rvagg/js-ipld-vector - wrapper around iavector for IPLD friendliness.

@mikeal
  - Data Schema updates
      - https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/211
  - spoke at WaffleJS about reg
  - parsing lots of data into IPLD
  - wrote generic batchign mutex
  - writing generic graph traverser
  - writing generic level block store
  - need more iteration on UnixFSv2

## Notes

 - @vmx: Mention that JS IPLD wants to get away without multicodecs built-in, but rather pass them into the stack (do the same thing for storage) => pass in all the stuff

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

- There are significant questions around what car files are for, at a very high level.
    - Is this a transport format?  Or a thing that's a codec?
    - If it's a codec, and deserves a multicodec entry... what do we actually expect that to do?
    - If it's a transport format, why... would it have a multicodec entry?
    - It seems clear that car files have different concerns than regular links (which we simply expect to go to one block -- one DAG segment, which may have more links, which are satisfied by other blocks)...
    - you guys, this is not a codec and like... rethink this.


- Specific questions for Volker to convey:
    - What are the method(s) of addressing a car file? It contains the hash of the entire dataset, but what else? Does it have a CID-like-identifier on its own? ( local-content addressable, like anything else )?
    - Is there an expectation of a reserved CID for car-files in the global multicodec table https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec/blob/master/table.csv ?
    - If yes to the above - what is the motivation? Are car-files expected to be findable in the global DHT?
- Extra credit questions:
    - Is it fair to say a car-file is like a torrent magnet-link? If yes - what are the main differences?
    - What happens if you put 1TB of data into Filecoin?
      - Do you split into car files?
      - Who keeps track of car fies?
      - Can you link between car-files? Use the hash of the car-files?
