# 🖧 IPLD Every-two-weeks Sync 🙌🏽 2019-07-22

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @stebalien
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hyl2B1Dsf-Y


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Keeping WASM effort real
  - Making this meeting a weekly one?
  - _add your agenda item_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

### Keeping WASM effort real

- @vmx exploring the wasm space, discussion ensued about current state and practicalities:
  - shouldn't block any existing work (UnixFSv2)
  - useful as a target for the future, i.e. keep it in mind while we build things, "how might this work in the WASM utopia?"
- behavioral spec first, wasm later?
- security concerns
  - read sandbox
  - time limits
- general problems (not concrete to wasm; equally would apply to jvm, etc)
  - interpreter versioning problem
  - edge api / stdlib versioning problem
  - no divine/canonical bytecode to hash


### Making this meeting a weekly one?

- @warpfork proposed weekly meetings
- agreed we would start next week, give it a try and revert if the pain to value ratio doesn't work out


### Misc

- @rvagg: we have a bunch of things in limbo that need to be resolved, we should focus on clearning some things out (mainly in the specs repo)
- @warpfork: it would be good to revisit some basic README type work, goals, non-goals etc. (shared mental state)
- @warpfork: encountered problems at IPFS Camp 2019 with the layer cake model, we've been doing layers but there are things that don't fit well and it's causing confusion.
  - @rvagg: we still need some hierarchy or set of paths for what people should look at first.


### Two-week Update

@vmx
 - Catching up after vacations
 - js-ipld-dag-pb work.
    - Merged the hopefully last API changes: https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld-dag-pb/pull/141
    - Working on integrating those change into js-ipfs

@warpfork
 - Schemas, and both codegen-backed and runtime typed node constraints, are rolling.  It's a long road ahead, but progress being made.
   - Lots of fundamental issues sussed out: relationship of schema kinds to data model kinds; typed node and paired representation node; etc.
   - Forcing lots of other improvements to library core along the way: for example, getting well-typed errors now.
   - Banged out a quick codegen for typed strings, but deferring the rest of the scalar/leaf kinds because they're easy and unsurprising.
   - Working mostly on Structs at present, as they're the hardest or second-hardest (some trickiness also anticipated around unions).
 - Some selector spec cleanup, and code review and support for Hannah
   - Proxy report on that: Hannah is rocking and proposed and/or landed several PRs that seem to contain the bulk of Selector implementation.
     - Awesome.
     - And for further wow: https://github.com/ipfs/go-graphsync/pull/35 -- already PoC'ing full integration.

@rvagg
 - npm as a data set - starting off with packages in a HashMap (HAMT), exploring the challenges of the problem space, trying to make a useful database (for an actual usecase, nodei.co)
   - avoiding DHT for now
   - how to serve (http will do for now)
   - how to update (avoiding IPND, some form of mutable links)
   - client side issues - block store, lru, exploring performance concerns with existing options
