# ðŸ–§ IPLD Weekly Sync ðŸ™ŒðŸ½ 2019-10-28

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @stebalien
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IC9Id62Nnf8


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


### Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Looks like I won't use Serde for Rust IPLD :(
   - The Serde Data Model currently doesn't support tags and the current maintainer doesn't seem open to add that: https://github.com/serde-rs/serde/pull/1643#pullrequestreview-307593006
 - STAC is interesting in using Multihash for their checksum extension:
   - I'll work on that this week
   - https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/issues/503
   - This is huge as for the STAC spec it's planned to become an OGC standard. The OGC is like the ISO for geo standards. Having Multihash in there would be a good start to get more Multiformats adoption.

@rvagg

 - User-facing Schema docs https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/216
 - Zcash for JS, replace old stale block decoder with mine https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/216

@warpfork

- learned some new go compiler tricks to get info about what it's thinking
	-  `-gcflags '-m -m'` is an (underdocumented!  i found it by reading the dang compiler source) lifechanger
- have a much more refined understanding of the compiler and garbage collector and memory model this week.
	- specifically around escape analysis and "internal pointers".
	- happily i was wrong about some fears about worst-case last week.
- latest/best understanding of design space around pointers and performance of codegen outputs:
	- yes, we do want to use embedded structs much of the time
	- simultaneously, we want to do most of the methods as pointer-receivers
		- these *don't* mean things shift to heap -- rather, it actually gives the compiler more freedom to decide where things should live than value-receiver methods do.
	- we can probably explore a design space where the nodebuilders also do a tree with lots of embeds
		- similar reasons: amortizes allocs
		- putting this in parallel to the value tree and using pointers into the value tree fixes the lifetime problems last week's design had.
	- could probably improve on this even more... with a different abstraction.
	 	- something like a "DataRacker" (?naming) rather than NodeBuilder: more friendly to pre-allocation.
		- but getting these to share code is nontrivial (possibly impossible? whilst still maintaining alloc amortization for both, anyway.)
		- still exploring this idea.
	- and none of the above is perfect, and I think I can all but "prove" that's inevitable.
		- the more struct embedding we can do, the more efficient *anamorphisms* (unfolds) are...
		- ... but if then doing reshuffles of trees, we'd rather have pointers wherever we're going to shuffle, so we don't have to copy values.
		- **the ideal place to point pointers depends on the morphisms you're about to do on the data**...
		- and that's something *we don't know* at the part of the development cycle where codegen runs.
		- cool >:(
		- optimal solution (ignoring dev costs)?  write a new programming language based around explicit understanding of topological morphisms of course
			- but let's not, that's a *little* bigger scope than we want right now... heh.
			- still good to know which direction we'd head if we did have infinite resources, though.
		- knowing that the optimal solution is out of reach makes me much more comfortable moving forward with known-to-be-compromising solutions.
	- bonus impossibility detail: "what if we generated more than one concrete implementation of the types, with varying pointer positions?"
		- enjoy no longer being able to inline even the natively typed accessors.  nope.
- other good news: some contributions from hannah filled in some more of codegen
	- and she's consuming it to do some other (specialized) work -- so this is at least partial exercise, and useful: will get us a feedback loop on some of the UX of using codegen combined with other human-written code interfacing with it.
	

## Notes

 - @vmx is off Fri 2019-11-01

 - warpfork wonders if vmx can poke at doing datamodel and selectors in rust... without touching serialization?

 - warpfork todo: share intro doc drafts with rvagg

 - steven suggests to warpfork to check out for RVO ("return value optimizations") and see if that helps anything?
