# üñß IPLD Bi-Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2018-03-18

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @mikeal
  - @hannahhoward
  - @aschmahmann
  - @rvagg
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXMs1C7PB4g


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Two-weeek update
  - Filecoin interfaces for GraphSync -- final questions before talking to fancy people
  - Time of the meeting when we all moved through daylight saving time changes


## Notes

### Two-week Update

@vmx
 - New JS IPLD API:
  - https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld/pull/190
  - https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld/pull/191
 - FOSSGIS Conference, I'll update you all on IPLD related things at some later point

@warpfork
  - mega docs PR: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/3/
  - mega linking rewrite: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/4/
  - linking should be settled after this...!  whew.
  - time for lots of testing (now that stuff should be settling).
  - some todos around doing another pass on iterator interfaces; identified a few new needs for selector internals.
  - can start moving on selectors stuff :D
  - integration work for @aschmahmann

@terichadbourne (ProtoSchool) via @mikeal
  - Working on ProtoSchool roadmap and need suggestions from IPLD team about how ProtoSchool can best serve your educational goals in 2019 & 2020. Please add your ideas here: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/issues/62
  - Roadmap for proto.school - what do we want from it

@rvagg
  - deep-dive on IPLD, learning with data sets: animal genetic data with deep pedigree linkages, dictionary data with logical sortability
  - writing some basic intro docs, maybe blog post some time
  - working on an "Ordered Collections" background and rationale doc to get better insight from the team (people who have been thinking about this longer than me!)

@hannahhoward
  - GraphSync filecoin interfaces issue: https://github.com/ipfs/go-graphsync/issues/18
  - RequestManager -- first big chunk of code -- https://github.com/ipfs/go-graphsync/pull/19 - @warpfork volunteered by the go-ipfs team to review it - @aschmahmann also offered to lend a pair of eyes

### Filecoin interfaces for GraphSync

@hannahhoward: https://github.com/ipfs/go-graphsync/issues/18 - should we return to Filecoin and/or IPFS blocks or IPLD nodes? The wire protocol deals with blocks, they should either be converted back to nodes in graphsync before filecoin or filecoin could decide whether to convert.

```go
type ResponseProgress struct {
  Node ipld.Node
  // or
  Block blocks.Block
}
```

If you use blocks then it'll be more friendly to a system that isn't familiar with IPLD prime.

_Some discussion on tradeoffs and acknowledgement of (a) IPLD wanting to make blocks less important / more transparent and (b) the Filecoin team already using blocks as a core unit_

@hannahoward: will shoot for blocks and see if they object downstream.

### Meeting time

With DST coming up, we need to adjust the meeting time to accommodate  hemispheres. Agreed to pull it back by 30 minutes (UTC fixed) so it'll be not too late in Europe and not too early in Australia.
