# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2019-12-02

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @mikeal
  - @warpfork
  - @vmx
  - @jimpick
  - @rvagg
  - @riba
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rx-APpPJ1Nw


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@mikeal
 - [IPLD schema generator from CSV](https://github.com/mikeal/csv-ipld-schema-gen)
 - Slowly moving tests to Polendina
 - Working on migrating a bunch of open data sets to IPLD

@warpfork
- few days of relax&recovery last week
- pivoted some time to docs improvements, since getting some external asks
	- mostly in the godocs (there were obvious gaps that were easy to fix)
	- (also less legacy text to try to decide how to wrangle... though we do need to do that with the sites, soon.)
	- outside this team: some other groups are working on more diverse filecoin implementations, and that leads to ipld questions, whee
- more prototype code reaching for an increasingly fully formed "racker" nodebuilder (e.g. the alloc amortizating effort).
	- more tests confirming the strategy holds up in practice
		- lost some time combating regressions (?) in go runtime manual gc and memstats reporting :(
	- earlier had the idea that racker could be a very small volume of code wrapping regular builder... unclear now.
		- some of the 'isFrozen' checks end up in an odd order that doesn't compose well.  will retry.
		- if it doesn't work, some design changes, but not many.
	- still also progressing on the "HACKME_memorylayout.md" file which documents all this.

@vmx
 - Filecoin stuff

@rvagg
 - Browser testing lib published, polished & used, https://github.com/rvagg/polendina
 - Minor schema tweaks - js parser now allows lower-case letters at the start of the name and struct fields & enum values 


## Notes

 - Question (@vmx):
   - Does the [IPLD Hashmap Spec](https://github.com/ipld/specs/blob/ba98759cc62571734c3c1decfe7b13a39401d5fa/data-structures/hashmap.md) match the currently implemented [Filecoin HAMT Spec](https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/109/files)? 
     - Differences:
       - Filecoin has single character names
       - Filecoin has no HAMT parameters in the root block
     - Have discussed pulling parameters up a level to put the root block in a "container" so that if you want to _start_ at the container then you can do without the parameters.
     - Can also do more unification work if Filecoin team has time to engage on this.

 - Discussion with @riba about efficiency and parameter selection and "a CAP theorem for IPLD", particularly around HAMT parameters and the need to research the options and tradeoffs, and rabin chunking which also has de-duplication as a tradeoff. @riba will be working on these kinds of questions in the coming weeks/months.

 - (After recording) Discussion about inline links in schemas and implementing a syntax for a thing that could be a link or an inline type, e.g. `&|Foo`. @mikeal wanting it for UnixFSv2 and other things where there are many "maybe inline" nodes and kinded unions are getting verbose. Discussed:
    - Impacts on validation
    - Hash consistency
    - Forcing the user to confront important decisions (@rvagg: hiding kinded unions might not be a good thing since they are important to understand but also not easy to understand)
    - Other related matters ..
    - @mikeal will continue the discussion with a Schemas PR


