# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2019-12-16

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @ribasushi
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mslELA7hgGk


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - New version of rust-ipld-dag-cbor: https://github.com/vmx/rust-ipld-dag-cbor
   - Based on Serde
   - Using a branch of cbor_serde which is very likely to be merged

@warpfork
- major new go-ipld-prime interface concept to be introduced: NodeStyle.
	- before and after:
		- before: `Node.NodeBuilder() NodeBuilder`
		- after: `Node.Style() NodeStyle` and `NodeStyle.Builder() NodeBuilder`
	- secretly, it's dang near a NodeBuilderFactory -- don't tell anyone
	- makes it clearer that creating a NodeBuilder will alloc -- getting a NodeStyle reference usually will not.
	- sort of like `reflect.Type` vs `reflect.Type.NewValue` (except this is called "style" because "type" is a word we use at the schema layer, so it must be avoided here)
	- resolves lots of things that were previously unclear or overloaded
		- for example, when you configure an ADL?  you get a NodeStyle.  to create one and fill with data?  `NodeStyle.Builder()`.
		- for example, when telling an ADL what kind of values it will have?  you give it another NodeStyle.  (previously, this would've been "give it a nodebuilder", but as the "when does new alloc happen" question became complicated by the racker design, this got less clear (and probably morphed into "give it a nodebuilder factory"); it's now clear again.)
	- can attach fancy features and do feature-detection here
		- for example, `nodeStyle.(SupportsAmend).AmendingBuilder(previous Node) NodeBuilder` -- opt-in support for this is much, much better than current interfaces.
		- for example, could put hinting methods here which give info to generic traversal code about what's likely to be optimal when handling this node.  (e.g. "IsEmbedded" is sometimes useful to know.)
		- open-ended!  pleasing.
	- reminder: `ipld.NodeStyle` is still distinct from `schema.Type`.  former is about memory layout, latter is about schema constraints.  often related but not always so.
		- every codegenerated type will have a NodeStyle.
		- every runtime Node enforcing schema.Type will also have a NodeStyle (distinct from the one a codegen'd type would have).
		- not every NodeStyle has a schema.Type (if operating with Data Model level alone, clearly you shouldn't encounter `schema.Type`).
	- alternative vocab: this probably sounds a lot like "NodePrototype" if we used javascriptean vocab?  not sure how far this comparison holds; probably "pretty far".



## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

@vmx off: 2019-12-23/2019-01-10
@warpfork off: 2019-12-23/2019-01-06

## more notes

- vocab gaps -- 
    - appar there are some between ipld and filecoin -- documenting this would be a good step
    - "merkledag" is concretely associated with "protobuf" in several places
        - this is hugely miscommunicative and we should try to fix it
        - **should** be a concept description
    - potentially "sectors" vs "pieces" vs "blocks"
        - maybe some of these are different and that's correct -- but we should note that too, explicitly.
