# üñß IPLD Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2019-08-12

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @stebalien
- **Recording:** https://youtu.be/LC1oLYL9k1k


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Go through open PRs in https://github.com/ipld/specs/ repo
  - _add your agenda item_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->


### Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Getting js-ipfs upgraded to latest js-ipld which uses the latest ipfs-repo release which is async/await based

@warpfork
 - most of the selector stuff from hannah has landed on go-ipld-prime master :tada:
 - i wrote a small book about performance: https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/commit/d0ce3ded4aaa49b4d047b79a5c2ddc03f06d7f80
 - clearing out a bunch of naming refactors that have been buffered until an opportune moment...
   - https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/27
   - https://github.com/ipld/go-ipld-prime/pull/28
 - merged all of the specs PRs that were uncontentious (which was many -- yayy)
    
@rvagg
 - More Go, plus some Go/JS compat work https://github.com/rvagg/js-ds-zipcar and https://github.com/rvagg/go-ds-zipcar for test fixture data.
 - Fixing serialization bug for dag-pb https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld-dag-pb/pull/156
 - Minor adventures in simplified browser testing

@mikeal
 - Preparing for and participating in meetings:
   - UnixFSv1 and UnixFSv2
   - First project advisory meeting, updated on current status and projects, new forum for getting organizational things dealt with - bubble up questions to this meeting via Mikeal (what we're struggling with, how to message things, things where we would benefit from external input)

### Spec repo pruning

Dove head-first into the spec repo to try and clean up issues & PRs.

Issues:
 - #49 - and earlier we are closing due to staleness.
 - #55 - dag-pb linking, @vmx to pull it in to dag-pb spec work and close
 - #56 - primitives - close
 - #57 - type encoding - close
 - #58 - non-string keys - close this one with reference to #59.
 - #59 - need to write up that we only support string keys in map kinds and _why_.
 - #65 - closed
 - #67 - path encoding - archive this to design history @vmx
 - #71 - type convensions - archive to design-history @vmx
 - #76 - compression - archive to design-history - @vmx to reach out to user at IPFS camp that had an interesting use-case for this
 - #77 - dag docs - @mikeal to fix this one by putting in a description of a DAG, and close it out
 - #80 - cbor numbers - @vmx working on cbor spec so will handle this
 - #81 - lowercase filenames - close
 - #83 - links - leave open, we have a links doc TODO
 - #84 - slice paths - needs to go into path spec
 - #86 - action items from a meeting - can be closed
 - #94 - selectors exploration - archive to design-history @vmx
 - #98 - ipld ietf name - leave open
 - #101 - replication protocol - to design history @vmx
 - #102 - mime type iana registration - leave open but @mikeal to add some notes to it with current thoughts
 - #103 - selectors spec naming - close as things have move on
 - #105 - recursive selector types - close
 - #106 - nested recursive traversal - close
 - #107 - sequential selector - close
 - #108 - dag-json whitespace - @mikeal to work on this
 - #118 - schemas & advanced layout - @vmx to archive
 - #119 - design rules - closing
 - #120 - graphsync query dedupe - @vmx to archive
 - #130 - advanced data structure "criticial decisions" - @vmx to archive
 - #140 - schema questions - answered, closed
 - #144 - reconcilling terminology - close but @mikeal to put a note on current status and future progress (via his work on UnixFSv2 coming up - working toward specs describing what these things are)
 - #158 - drop "kind" from adv layout - active discussion, leaving open

PRs:
 - #69 - go-car links - close - we might benefit from a "related projects" link pileup though
 - #104 - selectors - close with prejudice - it's already been folded into other things
 - #109 - why's hamt - probably close, probably move to historical report document
 - #111 - graphsync metadata - ping hannah to check -- decision unclear
 - #114 & #115 - dag-pb spec - @vmx to extract/merge the important pieces and close (also pull in discussion in #55)
 - #128 - cardinality doc move - close - moved reorg to action items
 - #129 - new dag-json format - create an archive of the discussion and put in design-history (@vmx to archive)
 - #131 - HashMap spec - merged
 - #137 - AMT spec for sparse arrays for Filecoin, no known implementation - put "experimental" at the top and merge it into design/ appended with a letter.
 - #138 - Vector spec - @rvagg to take care of outstanding comment(s) and merge
 - #153 - linking in foundations doc - ended up being more controversial than anticipated - @warpfork to close and split it into multiple future PRs attacking the same things but separatelyy
 - #159 - capture histor of graphsync A spec proposal and discussion, merged
 - #160 - capture histor of graphsync C spec proposal and discussion, merged

### Other Actions

- Move 'concepts' into 'design/concepts'
- Up-one everything in the 'schema-layer/' directory

### Discussion later...

When we park something into a design history document...

- do we want to immortalize all the comments on github?
- or is it better to write a terse summary, and then sufficient to just link to original PR/issues?
- (in other words, are we archiving in defense of github going down?  or just building summaries and link indexes in-repo?)

Graphsync...

- is it possible to move graphsync specs to graphsync repo?
  - warpfork: istm graphsync is "ipld ecosystem" moreso than core... and it's a repo under the ipld org, which is close enough.
    - weakly held opinion.
    
Organization overall...

- let's bat around other dir organizations.  (let's do this as the *whole* thing at once, not single moves.)
  - here's one go: https://gist.github.com/warpfork/104c8bca42b87704c3b9a41cf1c690f2

Internal messaging vs external messaging...

- there's a ["book" repo](https://github.com/ipld/book) that might be a place for external messaging.
  - this might be useful so when we *do* get something to the point we want external messaging, that external facing doc gets a clean start
- warpfork: thinks that sounds nice but is slightly dubious we'll have the energy to maintain two sets of messaging...

