# 🖧 IPLD Every-two-weeks Sync 🙌🏽 2019-06-24

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:** @vmx @warpfork @rvagg
- **Recording:** TODO

## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - dag-json vs json-raw vs json-?
  - dag-pb named links
  - Advanced layouts / generics

## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->

### Two-week Update

@vmx
 - Got [STAC browser](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-browser) to load some data from IPLD (still not really working, but it's a start)
 - Found out that [Parcel](https://github.com/parcel-bundler/) doesn't work well if you don't have your dependencies nicely transpiled already. I don't recommend using Parcel.
 - Played around compiling the C-based Rabin Chunker to WASM. It's not faster than the AssemblyScript version.

@warpfork
  - selectors draft "41" hoisted
  - have some new example schemas and a drafted example selector from filecoin team who wants to use this stuff
    - they turn out to want nested recursion -- wowowo.  but we should be able to do it.
  - selectors PoC code PR to go-ipld-prime hoisted
  - sounds like hannah may come help out on further selector code, yayy
  - hoisted another round of unixfsv2 schema draft, plus many many notes
    - had long chat with mikeal -- basically anticipating being able to put much of his interesting draft code inside the boundaries of the advanced layout interface, which makes the net result pretty clean.
  - gonna try to shift back to some schema work...
    - possibly with the aim of getting a skeleton we can power codegen with
  
@rvagg
  - researching persistent data structures from the functional programming community
  - implementing a vector based on the Clojure Persistent Vector / Scala Bitmapped Vector Trie / Array Mapped Trie (AMT) algorithm
    - it's a *bit* like [sharray](https://github.com/whyrusleeping/sharray), a spec may be able to produce a sharray-compatible structure when using certain defaults


### dag-json vs json-raw vs json-?

* Briefly discussed proposals on a possible new json format: https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/129

### dag-pb named links

* @vmx: there are two ways of addressing links in dag-pb, by name or by index. There's a discussion about possibly removing named links because they present a lot of overhead.
* @vmx: https://github.com/ipld/js-ipld-dag-pb/pull/141#issuecomment-503623854 @achingbrain has been investigating the overhead and is proposing removing them since they don't get used in JS at all. We are unsure if they are used on the Go side.
* @warpfork: unsure of the current state, they are implemented in the older Go IPLD libraries. But we should probably have some flexibility with how we go forward with these.
* @vmx: haven't heard any complaints with the recent round of very major API changes in dag-pb, so possibly nobody (or not many) people are using it.
* @warpfork: we should probably ask someone who was more involved with dag-pb when it was made before removing it.
* @vmx: I will take up the task of removing it, will do some investigating first, from the IPLD side we don't see any issues and it can be removed.

### Advanced layouts / generics

* @rvagg: there's been a lot of discussion over the last couple of weeks about these multi-block types, where they fit, what they're called, how they interact with schemas. No solid outcomes but lots of dicsussion and it needs to move toward some kind of concensus on many of the issues.
  - https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/126
  - https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/130
  - some notes from Berlin in-person: https://github.com/ipld/ipld/pull/72
