# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2019-11-11

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @vmx
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bpLasB6zvdQ


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


### Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Tag support in Serde
     - Perhaps forking Serde: https://github.com/pyfisch/cbor/issues/157#issuecomment-552204338
 - [STAC](https://stacspec.org/) is using Multihash for their checksum extension!
     - https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/pull/625
 - Getting Rust IPLD/Multiformats related projects into shape
     - Starting with https://github.com/multiformats/rust-multihash/, make sure libp2p can use upstream again (and not their own fork)

@warpfork
 - Continuing work on making codegen outputs optimization-friendly.
     - Now that we know we can solve lots of issues around interface boxing costs by leaning on "internal pointers", it's time to turn attention to also making sure value creation can work with as few allocs as possible.
     - Implementation-wise: can we make builders that embed other builder's states and thus amortize allocs?
         - Yes, almost certainly.
         - The bigger questions are how we make that API consumable.
     - Interface-wise: oh dear.
         - To date, we've had a NodeBuilder interface.  This works building up small values and composing them into bigger ones.
         - What we'd want to do for efficiently amortizing the allocs requires us to go exactly the opposite way: start by reserving a big piece of memory, and filling in the smaller and smaller details.
         - Can we do this without expanding our code (and support burdens) to encompass both?
     - Working on a "HACKME_memorylayout.md" doc to record all the detailed inputs to the design.

@rvagg
 - CBOR encoding / decoding in JS - can we do it more efficiently (also a learning project, getting more familiar with CBOR)
 - Re-upskilling in browser stuff after years of ignorance - how to efficiently test library code in a browser (page and webworker) environment. Playing with Puppeteer.


## Notes

 - Question @vmx: In IPLD Schemas, what if you want to you a different representation for different encoding formats?
   - Answer: We could write tools that transform the representation of IPLD Schemas to the one you like
 
