# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2019-10-21

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SKnG0e-kxh8


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - Keeping meeting at 21:00 UTC?
  - _add your agenda item_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->


### Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Still working on making Serde supporting tags
 - Getting better at Rust and FFIs

@warpfork

- doing many research spikes into performance of code created by codegen
    - know from previous experience with refmt that performance will be very noticed
        - and know that malloc count is a heavy hitter, and hard redesign around later
        - so trying to be performance-friendly (and alloc-avoidant) as much as possible as early as possible
    - this is fairly entangled with the 'maybe' API questions in recent weeks as well
    - turns out to be entangled with... darn near everything, actually.  ow.
- discovered so far:
    - the most naive approaches result in one alloc per node and per nodebuilder
        - so this is our worst case, and while survivable, better would be... better
    - can make a tradeoff to combine those two... but is trade, not free: details of the mechanism cause extra bytes for any addntl state the builder needed to stay allocated for lifetime of node (not just the builder).
    - "ultrafastpath" marshal and unmarshal  (i.e. what we're *not* implementing first, Because Complexity Budget, but do plan eventually) can use concrete rather than interface types in many places, which avoids many allocs
    - ... but ... that doesnt hold if we then use selectors or any other generic-over-Node code on the resulting data: that causes most of the allocs again.
    - still looking for more ways to amortize more things
    - nothing about this is obvious and the iteration costs are also high, because a large amount of system needs to be realized before the holistic effects can be measured.
        - (I did a completely pointer-free alternative struct codegen path this week and it got... not faster, to my disappointment.  Not Obvious.)

@rvagg
 - Go schemas! Big refactor of types and internal data structures, no more unordered maps, go-ipld-schema can do round-trip schema parse & print and it comes out the same
 - Raging at Go .. some unsuccessful experimentation, got bitten by Go .. chalk it up to learning.

@mikeal
 - js-unixfsv2 encoder and reader work!
 - ipld-schema-gen works and is mostly feature complete
 - moving the Data work out of unixfsv2 and into its own re-usable thing

## Keeping meeting at 21:00 UTC?

DST is ending in the northern hemisphere, should we pin to UTC or not.

Yes. Team agreed that it would be the most stable and fair option to pin it.
