# üñß IPLD Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2019-09-09

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @rvagg
  - @warpfork
  - @mikeal
- **Recording:** https://youtu.be/kX8sKBjWPaw 


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->


### Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Attended [FOSS4G conference](https://2019.foss4g.org/) (Free and Open Source for Geospatial conference)
  - Talks given:
    - Geodata on IPFS: https://media.ccc.de/v/bucharest-401-geodata-on-ipfs
    - [STAC](https://stacspec.org/) on IPLD: https://media.ccc.de/v/bucharest-513-eo-data-challenge-proposals#t=509
 - Trying to update js-ipfs-repo in js-ipfs. Didn't get it working, handed over to the js-ipfs team

@warpfork
 - talking schema syntax for link and adl details and 'any' with rvagg.
 - lots of supporting fill: added several typed errors this week, PathSegment refactor, Node.LookupSegment.
 - (last week) codegen work continues...
   - some common features starting to shape up (e.g. DRY'ing symbol name munging)
   - started to tackle nodebuilders-proposing-child-nodebuilders, will probably land that this week...
   - which means we might have some deserialization POCs next week (!)
 - (this week) we have those deserialization POCs!!!!!!
   - really excited about this: concrete milestone showing we're on track.  no abstractions have shattered.  yayy!

@rvagg
 - Time off for most of this last week.
 - Schemas, schemas and more schemas. Specs, JS parser, Go parser, pulling them all into the same state.
 - Will be doing ... more schemas (finalising `advanced` and `&Link` syntax in spec, JS, Go).

@mikeal
 - UnixFSv2 made lots of progress, can encode files and directories recursively and spit out blocks in JavaScript - lacking tests and other pieces
 - UnixFSv1 changes for metadata are proposed https://github.com/ipfs/specs/pull/220
 - OKR process for next quarter need to be done for next week https://github.com/ipld/roadmap/pull/16
 - Roadmap repo has an issue discussing requiurements for dependencies https://github.com/ipld/roadmap/issues/17
 - GitHub team permissions in auto repo https://github.com/ipld/auto

### Advanced layout schema syntax

Discussed https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/190, landed on a syntax to try out (this week) to get started.
