# 🖧 IPLD Weekly Sync 🙌🏽 2019-09-16

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:** @rvagg
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @mikeal
  - @warpfork
  - @rvagg
- **Recording:** https://youtu.be/s-JaUxSPHuU


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->


### Weekly Update

@vmx
 - rust dag-cbor:
   - Adding tags to serde-cbor based on https://github.com/pyfisch/cbor/pull/129

@warpfork
 - working on enumerating design options for more of the upcoming ergonomic choices about codegen in go
   - review: last week we got codegen of structs, their type-level node and builder, their repr-level node and builder, and marshal/unmarshal proven to work!  all good... but all still regarding the monomorphized/generic node interfaces.
   - we still want things like accessor methods named after struct fields for examples -- and there's more than one way to do this.
   - unions will pose issues about this galore -- remember, "union" isn't a concept that exists natively in go at all; more than one way to do this.
   - significant usability questions around how to present the undefined-vs-null values as well as constructing them.
     - this is handled for node interfaces already -- ergonomics of it when concrete types in play is a different story, though.  (multireturns could be part of it, but annoying syntactically... etc.)
   -  Note that since this is *all* ergonomics questions, they don't often have clear right and wrong answers.  Hard to distill quickly.
 - still hammering going on in the area of advanced layout specs and how they should fit syntactically with other systems (mostly Rod driving though tytytytyvm)

@rvagg
 - schemas:
   - stringjoin, stringpairs, listpairs in JS & Go & specs
   - &Links in JS & Go & specs
   - "alias" -> "rename" in JS & specs
   - AnyScalar in specs
   - byteprefix for unions from Filecoin in specs & JS & Go
   - int representation for enums proposal from Filecoin specs https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/196
   - `advanced` for specs from discussion last week, partial in JS, hit a snag on the encryption usecase and whether our syntax and conception still works for that, may need more iteration so will do a pre-spec impl in JS (and probably Go) that prints a warning about it maybe changing.
   - HashMap spec change proposal https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/192

@mikeal
 - more of the same from the week before
 - schemagen (JS)
   - started on the writer where multi-block becomes interesting
   - have some basic stuff working on the reader side

### ADL syntax hiccups

Idea appeared of doing something we know we're maybe not satisfied with for ADL syntax...
and printing warnings to stderr about this being non-confirmed.
We want this so we can put things like e.g. the filecoin spec into CI guidance sooner than later.
This is a less scary place for breaking changes than some others: we expect the splash radius of it isn't much bigger than... itself!

### Meeting note taking tools

Would we be interested in thinking about using hackmd.io ?
Less blinding color scheme, takes forever to open, this is public documents, among many (many) other details.
