# üñß IPLD Weekly Sync üôåüèΩ 2020-02-03

- **Lead:** @vmx
- **Notetaker:**
- **Attendees:**
  - @vmx
  - @warpfork
  - @rvagg
  - @mikeal
  - @gozala
  - @ribasushi
  - @creationix
- **Recording:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QPDiW5s-pzE


## Agenda

- General
  - Start recording
  - Start live stream
  - Find a notetaker
  - Ask everyone to put their name into the list of attendees
  - Ask everyone to put their items that they've been working on the past two weeks (should be done prior to the meeting)
  - Ask for last minute agenda items
- This meeting
  - _add your agenda item_


## Weekly Update

@vmx
 - Making Rust IPLD an actual thing
   - I base my Rust IPLD on top of https://github.com/ipfs-rust/rust-ipld as it already does a lot of things we want, there is no point of re-inventing the wheel
   - Rust Filecoin is open source: https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest/
     - They currently use CBOR directly (base on my initial Rust IPLD code), hopefully they'll change in the future
     - They use multiformats stuff and contribute upstream: https://github.com/multiformats/rust-multihash/pull/44

@warpfork
 - spreadin some golang performance knowledge around
 - working towards bringing the new node/nodeassembler interfaces towards core.
     - ...since per last week, benchmarks indicated Good Things.
     - reimplemting 'ipldfree' package to see the performance gains fully realized.
         - finished details of recursive untyped maps in the new system.
             - in parallel, researching how to handle similar problems for codegen structs... but this stays on backburner for now.
         - hoping to see this wrapped up within next week.

@rvagg
 - specs
 - js cbor

@mikeal (goes last)
 - A new constraint surfaced for CAR files in Filecoin.
     - Can't have more than one root, invalidated the approach we had for large data project.
     - Allocator has to be re-written since some of the CAR files had more than 80K individual
       files which results in a CBOR block larger than 3mb.
 - thoughts? https://github.com/ipld/specs/issues/237
 - can we merge https://github.com/ipld/specs/pull/235 ?
 - this week: finalizing reviews, re-writing allocator and car file generation, maybe WebRepo?
 - we should probably do a team week this year, but what are the main things we want to cover?

## Notes

<!-- After each call, the notetaker submits a PR to https://github.com/ipld/team-mgmt to store the notes on the meeting-notes folder -->
